2013 - 2018

D E R B AY E R N P L A N

Government program of the Christian Social Union

CONTENTS
I.

HUMAN WORLD OF WORK -
Strong economy -
Modern infrastructure

Page 2

II.

Solid finances

Page 8

III.

FAMILIES AT THE HEART

Page 10

IV.

Best education

Page 12

V.

SOCIAL SECURITY

Page 14

VI.

INTERNAL SECURITY

Page 16

VII. LEBENDIGE MUNICIPALITIES

Page 18

VIII. Home landscape, culture

Page 20

IX.

BAVARIA'S AGRICULTURE

Page 21

X.

EUROPE AND FOREIGN POLICY

Page 22

XI.

COMMUNITY
And cohesion

Page 24

Dear Fellow
and fellow citizens,
Bayern is a special country. Highest
Quality of life and strong cohesion,
Social Security and solid finances - in Bavaria
it's the people better. Bavaria is highly respected in Europe and around the world.
No other country in Germany, a
demonstrate such balance.
We work to ensure that our children
and grandchildren have a good future.
No one takes this responsibility as seriously as we generation Bavaria. We support
the family in all its diversity and offer
best education for every child. For us,
Performance and solidarity with the weaker
together. This Christian values ​​foundation
guides our policies.
Important tasks for the future come on
Bavaria. We want to create jobs and wealth
secure in the global competition - by
Economic strength and innovation. We rely on
the energy of the future - safe, affordable and
environmentally friendly. We use digital
Awakening as a great opportunity for the future for Bayern.
We shape the demographic fi c change
for the best opportunities throughout the country.

I am convinced that we will meet these challenges of the future together. Orienting we
thereby to what made us strong Bayern
has: freedom, power joy, solidarity.
This is the Bavarian way. Other political
Forces rely on state orthodoxy, nannying
Citizens, tax increases. This is not
our way.
My ultimate goal is:
Bayern should continue for all people
His home and land of the future. Work For
we - in Franconia, Swabia and Old Bavaria.
For this we use the Bavarian interests
in Berlin and Brussels by.
I want a policy of dialogue after
Principle: listening - understanding - action.
I cordially invite you:
Let's create a bright future
for our home! My heart belongs to Bayern
and my heart beats for Bayern!
you

Horst Seehofer
Prime Minister of Bavaria

1

I.

HUMAN ARBEITSWELT-
Strong economy -
Modern infrastructure
Human
Working world

B

avaria today the lowest unemployment for many decades. Simultaneously
there are so many sozialversicherungsp fl ajor
Labor relations in Bavaria as never before.
The outstanding job opportunities we want for
save all people in all parts of Bavaria
and expand.

• We want full employment
in Bavaria.
• We want tari fl iche
Minimum wage.
• We want equal pay
for equal work.

Full employment for Bavaria:
We want full employment by 2018 for the whole of
Bayern reach. In many parts of our
Country there is already less than three percent
Unemployment. During the past seven Alone
Years are more than 650,000 extra in Bavaria
sozialversicherungsp fl ajor employment arose. We want a chance
to work for every human being in Bavaria.
Youth unemployment should disappear completely:
We in Bavaria have youth unemployment
almost completely defeated. In the future, it should fully
disappear. Each school leavers to access
a professional quali fi 'qualifying
obtain. We make sure no student
remains without a degree.
The work is to come to the people:
We want the people of all parts
Bavaria that they close work and training
ending on hometown fi. Two thirds of the Bavarian industrial jobs outside
conurbations. We want with an active
Ensure economic and structural policies for
that here get existing jobs
and more specifically to create new.
Tari fl iche minimum wages:
Those who work full-time, it should be able to live adequately. We want tari fl iche minimum wage. Wage dumping in Germany may no
Have space. We want that employer
and workers together for their industries
communicate and regions on minimum wage.
That's better than a statutory minimum wage,

2

everything lumps together and the
proven collective bargaining damaged.
Equal pay for equal work:
We want women and men equal
Get money for equal work. Businesses should this goal by way of Selbstverp fl ichtung set and make it transparent.
Time work to regular employment
only complement, but must not replace it.
We want temporary workers for a
Transitional period equal pay
get as comparable permanent employees
Workers.
Time limits must remain the exception:
Temporary jobs can not replace permanent employment relationships. Just
Young professionals who have a family or
want to start, need a reliable
Perspective. We want to share with the
Eighth economy that perpetual
Working conditions remain the rule.
More women in senior positions:
We want more women in leadership positions
in business and management. We want
Company fl exible, but verifiable
Set quotas for this goal.
Quali fi cation against shortage of skilled workers:
We want to meet a shortage of skilled workers occur through more Quali fi cation. Us
especially want older workers and
Jobseekers by Quali fi cation more
Open up opportunities. For more facilities
the influx of foreign workers from
Non-EU countries there is no need.

Strength
economy

B

ayerns economy is successful worldwide.
We have strong market leader, innovative
Company founder, modern industrial and
Craft shops and a robust middle class. Here is Bavaria's wealth and Bavaria
Social Security every day worked out anew.
Use for the middle class:
We are the medium-sized companies in Bavaria
encourage and support. The middle class is
the backbone of our economy. He creates with
Far the most jobs and apprenticeships. Therefore, the tax increase plans of other parties are poison for our
Economy. Especially medium-sized companies and family businesses would be affected dramatically.
We secure the Bavarian SMEs to:
No tax increases!
High-tech bonus for innovative companies:
We want to strengthen the innovative power of our companies and businesses. Investments
in research and development will in future
are particularly encouraged by tax
a high-tech bonus. We facilitate and
thus rewarding investment in the future
and in safe workplaces.
Reward Qualitative growth:
We want economic growth from
Decouple resource consumption. Bayern should
be a global leader in the Future Trends
Information and communication, health,
Environmental technology, new materials and climate-friendly mobility. At the same time we want
sustainable economic reward. In the
Public procurement, we will strongly consider that companies develop a strategy for sustainable economic activity.
Circular economy to promote:
We aim to increase the recycling of extant in industrial production.
More recycling means less

Cost of valuable resources, less
Transport routes and less dependence
from the outside. We want to become the leading Bayern
Making region of circular economy. Us
start for a new research network
for sustainable economic activity in cooperation
with the Bavarian economy.
The best of the best win:
We want the best minds in the world after
Get Bavaria. High and very high quali fi ed in
Research and Science, Management or
Culture should be good reasons for Bayern
can decide.
Start-up Initiative for innovative companies:
We want to encourage entrepreneurship in all sectors of society. We want
Founders better access to seed capital
facilitate and enhance networking with established companies and the higher education landscape in Bavaria. We can
our marketing strategy Economy Markets
worldwide entrepreneurs from Bavaria
to draw attention.

• We want the middle class
protect against tax increases.
• We want to founder and
Encourage innovation.
• We want quality
Reward growth.

Technology transfer for the middle class:
We are the middle class, the research results of our universities more easily
make available. For this, we will expand the technology transfer centers. Even small
and medium-sized enterprises outside agglomerations are of innovations and ideas
our universities animals even more pro fi.
Pioneer of sustainable tourism:
We want modern, attractive tourism
Connect with the responsibility for our Fatherland. We want to win even more guests,
which in our nature with Bavarian culture
and life recover. We start the initiative "Sustainable Tourism" and the award for "Sustainable Tourism Municipality of
Year ". We want a "Bayern ticket" for
3

an uncomplicated and combined use
Public Transportation and abut
thus mobility in Bayern especially for
Simplify tourists.
Bureaucracy brake:
We will in the next legislature
no additional administrative requirements
do. For a new rule at least one old provision should be deleted.

• We want as much power as we
consume in Bayern, Bavaria
produce itself.

New energy era
for Bayern

• We want a
Ten Thousand Housing Program
modern energy storage
promote.

B

• We want the energy turnaround
in harmony with the landscape
implement.

avaria is a leader in the development of renewable energies and in the implementation of
Energy revolution. Over the past four years
we completed the share of renewable energies
on the power supply of 25 to 33 percent
increased. We want a power supply,
the safe, clean and affordable remains.

Modern energy for a modern country:
Bavaria is the model country of renewables
Energies. Even before the energy turnaround Bayern was clearly in renewable energies in the national comparison at the top. We want that in
Bayern as much electricity is produced, consumed as
becomes. We are energy research up to 2016
significantly more support. We want to
Promote energy conservation. The package for the energy performance of buildings has to come. It is
irresponsible that red-green these stronger
Promoting the building renovation in the Bundesrat
blocked.
Ten Thousand Housing Program:
We want self-powered and independent of fossil fuels houses in Bavaria. We will
a Ten Thousand Homes program fl ay.
We want in the next five years tens of thousands of homeowners in Bavaria during installation
a separate energy storage support.
4

We want to help the privately used memory technology in Bavaria to the breakthrough and the
Promote energy autonomy in Bavaria.
Accelerate energy transition:
We want to accelerate the expansion of renewable energies in Bavaria. In our target that Bayern until 2022 half of its electricity
produced from renewable energy sources, we are
right on schedule. For the upcoming legislative period, we want the expansion pace again
attract and already by 2022 half of our
Refer electricity from renewable sources.
Focusing expertise:
We want all the expertise in energy -
from network expansion on the renewable energies
to energy research - in the state government
bundle in a ministry.
Platform Bayern energy:
We are a platform Bayern build energy. We all want to bring together the
Bavaria for power worry: from energy and grid operators to municipalities
and government agencies. Thus Bavaria receives a power supply from a single source.
Modern and environmentally friendly
Gas power plants as a supplement:
Need renewable energy base load
Power plants as a supplement for the times in which
the sun does not shine or the wind does not
blowing. In addition to the base load biomass and
Geothermal, we implement modern and
environmentally friendly gas power plants. We will
at the federal level on a better environment for economic operation of
Gas power plants penetrate. In any case, it remains
the existing timetable for switching off the
remaining four nuclear power plants in Bavaria.
In harmony with the landscape:
We want to further expand the Renewable

energies in harmony with man and nature
shape. We do not want to implement
the energy revolution at the expense of preservation
the creation and the preservation of our Bavarian countryside goes.

We want to take advantage of the digital age
make it usable for all people in Bavaria.
With our strategy Bayern Digital
we an ambitious goal: Who wants to see the digital future must come to Bavaria.

Citizens Energy and local power:
We want the energy turnaround from below.
The energy transition is decentralized to
Energy production contribute. We support municipal and cooperative
Initiatives for energy production. This creates
Local value creation and acceptance in the
Population.

Digitization billion:
We want to establish Bavaria as a leading digital regions worldwide. For this purpose, we will in the next legislature a
Invest a billion euros in digital pilot projects.
Bayern to be a leader, for example,
in the digital school, the digital health industry, the digital factory or the
digital road.

Participatory land of Bavaria to the energy turnaround:
We want in our town hall meetings
Introduce energy concept and in dialogue with
humans evolve. before the
Be construction of lines or power plants
to inform the public early and
embed.
EEG reform:
We want the Renewable Energy Sources Act
reform and the current state
bring. We want that renewable
Energies are consistently marketable.
Modern energy must remain affordable for
consumers as well as for businesses.
For existing investments, we grant
Legitimate expectations.

Bavaria
Digital

B

is avaria the opportunities of the digital
Age comprehensively use. Bavaria
is a leading region of the digital awakening
become. This creates important innovations
Economy and jobs and brings new perspectives for all areas - from the
Education up to the road.

High-speed Internet anywhere in Bavaria:
We ensure that Bayern will be equipped by 2018 surface coverage with high-speed Internet. Bavaria is now the country
most it does. The fi nancial facilities
for that we will continue to increase and make unbureaucratic. This enables us to municipalities
easier in the implementation of digital projects
support.

• We want to fast internet
everywhere in Bavaria.
• We want to set up an Internet center of excellence.
• We want a digital basic equipment for all schools and
Universities in Bavaria.

Internet Competence Center Bavaria:
We are a unique in Germany
Set up Internet competence center.
We want the opportunities of the digital awakening
so in engineering, business, labor, law
use and network and society.
Digital services in the administration:
By 2018, Bavaria is exemplary in
Its e-government. State government services will in future also everywhere
online may be exercised where
This is technically feasible and practical sense
is. We want the Digital commercial register
complete, create the Digital Land Registry
and electronic legal relations in
Setting up civil proceedings. Through the Open Data Portal Bavaria we make more and more data
5

Modern
Infrastructure
public from all government sectors and
increase the transparency of government action.

• We are the means to
Rehabilitation of national roads
increase.

Bavaria - Land of digital learning:
We want Bayern to the land of digital
Learning to do. Bavaria's schools should be a leader in the digital age. All Public
Educational institutions should by 2018 at the
Be connected Digital Education Network Bavaria
and have a digital standard. We are for modern teaching methods
and provide for the Quali fi cation of teachers
and us for the provision of textbooks
Set as e-books.
Virtual University of Bavaria:
We are Bavaria's universities to engines
make the digital upheaval. We want
with the Virtual University of Bavaria, the new
digital possibilities together with all
Universities and universities of applied
Sciences advance.
Focusing expertise:
We want to bundle interministerial the skills for an even speedier digital development of Bavaria and in the state government
Merging a ministry.
Opportunities for media center use:
We want the opportunities of the digital age
be used for the media industry in Bavaria and
thus creating new jobs. in the
The overall strategic Bayern Digital
We are companies and institutions in
new projects of the digital media age
support.

M

obility belongs to a modern
Country. Bavaria is its people
in the future with a modern infrastructure
well-developed transport routes offer.
Bavaria is the business location with the
best infrastructure worldwide.
Modern developed transport routes are a
important locational advantage for Bayern. At the same time
they are a prerequisite for equal
Living conditions in town and country.
Mobility for Bayern:
We will strengthen and expand Bavaria's road and rail network. We will the
Funds for the rehabilitation of national roads in
Bayern increase further. Rail transport
to the surface state of Bavaria passenger and
Freight ef fi cient and more attractive. We want the countries more in fl uence
get in the construction of railways.
Sustainable mobility advance:
We will promote fuel-efficient vehicles
and new, environmentally friendly drive technologies advance.
Traffic billion stabilize:
We want the federal government when increasing its transport investments permanently. We have
ensures that the federal transport budget
additional funding of € 1.75 billion in
set this and the last year
were. This also has strong Bayern Animal T pro fi.
We want this additional investment for
the future be institutionalized.
Uniform Traffic Department:
We will be responsible for transport in
join a department of the state government
and merge.
Car toll for foreign travelers:
We want more fairness and justice in
the streets fi nancing. Almost all of our demand

6

bouring countries in Europe charge a car toll.
Conversely need foreign motorists
for using our highways nothing
pay. This unfair state we want
change. We want to introduce a car toll
for travelers from abroad to German
Highways. The funds from the car toll
are in full exclusively for
road earmarking
become.
Citizen involvement in major projects:
We are in major infrastructure projects
involve citizens as early as possible and give them the opportunity,
to express their concerns.

• We want a toll for passenger cars
Travelers from abroad.
• We want the population
early large-scale projects
embed.

Second S-Bahn route for Munich:
We want the Munich S-Bahn with a
preserve second main line before the infarction. Of these bene fi daily up
800,000 commuters in the entire Munich region. We are heading to a rapid start of construction.
We guarantee: Because of the second trunk line is no other rail project
in person transport anywhere in Bayern
reset.
Public-private partnerships:
We want to major transport projects also
with public-private partnerships (PPPs)
realize. Bavaria is a pioneer in this
Territory and has set new standards with the expansion of the A8 between Munich and Ulm.
We want to feasibility as PPP projects
the new construction of the A94, in the expansion of A 3
between Würzburg and Nuremberg and the
Check Freilassing - extension of the rail route Munich.

7

II.

SOLID
FINANCES
B

avaria is modeled in terms of sound finances.
Balanced budget, repayment of old
Debt and high investment rate - which is
unique in Germany and Europe. Solid
Households is the basis for social strength
and intergenerational justice. We will
continue this course of sound stewardship.
We announce for the next five years only
at that, we can also fi nance solid -
without new debt and no new taxes.

• We want to Bayern
make 2030 debt free.
• We say a resounding no to
Tax increases.
• We want a fairer
Countries fi nanzausgleich.

No new debt:
Bavaria is the land of the balanced budget.
Since 2006 Bavaria sets every year against a balanced budget without borrowing.
Solid households is in the future a hallmark of Bavaria. We will also in the next legislative period the budget without
Debt should be top priorities.
Debt brake in the Bavarian Constitution:
We want the commandment "No new debt"
add them to the Bavarian Constitution and
There anchor a debt brake. Our
sound budgetary policy is also future
His generations scale. About the supplement
the Bavarian Constitution, there will be a referendum.
Bayern debt free 2030:
We make the Free State 2030
completely debt free. We have since January 2012.
already repaid EUR 2.5 billion on debts.
That is more than ten percent of the debt in
general budget of Bavaria. With the debt repayment saves Bayern from 2030 more than 1 billion euros in interest payments annually. We want to
the next legislature more powerful
Steps to make debt Bavaria:
saved from the general budget, from
Nanzausgleich interest and savings from the countries fi. The deleveraging of Bavaria is an epochal step for justice between the generations
and finances for the solidity of State fi.

8th

Make countries fi nanzausgleich fair:
We want a fair fi nanzausgleich countries.
The current system has gotten out of hand.
We say yes to solidarity with weaker
Countries, but we say no to unfair
System. Bavaria pays around 4 billion euros
per year alone half of all countries fi nanzausgleichs. This must not continue.
We want a country fi nanzausgleich, the
Performance not penalized and incentives for
Sets recipient countries to more budgetary discipline.
Brake control:
We want a tax brake. In Germany
and in Bavaria it is in the coming
Legislature no new taxes and
be no tax increases. The state should
make do with its revenues and thus
households. We direct all efforts
other parties for the introduction of new
or the increase of existing taxes a
clear rejection.
Cold progression degrade:
We want to fight the cold progression.
It must not be that of the State fi Hauptpro eur
is of wage increases. We want to
working people more remains of their well-deserved wage increases. We are
Relief of workers, unlike the SPD and Greens, the
Combating cold progression in the Bundesrat
to block.
Inheritance regionalize:
We want the inheritance tax for land thing
do. The revenue from the inheritance tax is already among the countries. Should therefore
countries can also determine the amount of inheritance tax. We want to go a
Regionalization inheritance tax in Bavaria
cutting red tape and reducing.

Tax Simplification:
We want the tax code simpler and more
make less bureaucratic. We want to expand generalizations and References
spare. The increase in the employee lump sum is for a first step.
In Bavaria we are a paragraph-Limit
introduce in the tax law. For each new
Paragraphs should be deleted an old.
Consistently against tax fraud Procedure:
Bayern consistently clamps down on tax evasion and fraud. We have a
Special Commission against tax evasion
Internet, control fl UCHT and capital market offenses, and a special unit against
VAT fraud established. We will
the staff aimed at combating serious
Double tax fraud.
Continue to drive rehabilitation Landesbank:
The rescue of BayernLB was right. Otherwise, many Bavarian savings banks would be in their
Existence was threatened. The rehabilitation of the
Landesbank has not been completed, but
on a successful path. Meanwhile,
writes BayernLB again gains and pays
back their debts in the Free State.
We will continue the rehabilitation of Landesbank
forge ahead, and thereby enable further repayment of the aid.

Implement a financial transaction tax and quickly
so that the financial markets use for the disposal costs of the financial crisis. Stock market speculation with food have hampered
become.

• We want the bracket creep
fight.
• We want Bavaria on
inheritance tax
itself may determine.
• We want the tax law
simpler and less bureaucratic
do.

Powerful investing in the future:
With high rates of investment, we are creating the
Foundations for sustainable growth. We ensure that the public investment ratio
Bavaria is still at the forefront of countries.
Financial markets tame;
We have unbridled financial speculation
clamp down. A financial crisis like
may in the past few years not
repeat. We want the decision to
9

III.

FAMILIES IN
FOCUS
K

• We want the Ehegattensplitting unrestricted
is maintained.
• We want children and money
Increase child allowance.
• We want to keep the Bavarian-raising allowance for low-income families.

another country in Germany supported his family as strong as Bayern.
For us marriage and family are at the center of
Politics. We want a family-friendly society, a family-friendly working environment
and a family-friendly educational environment.
We want a child-friendly society, in
the children are welcome. Families are infinitely important for good personal development
of children and young people. Marriage and
Family are entitled to special protection
and special promotion by the state.
Families should not have to justify
for government support. But the state
must use all possibilities vice versa, to help families. Marriage and family need to be particularly protected and promoted in the future.
Ehegattensplitting maintained:
We will get the full income splitting. We turn strongly opposed
all attempts to abolish the income splitting, ablate or cut back. The special protection of the state for the marriage must also
fi nancial support mean for marriage.
Child benefit and child tax credit increase:
We want the child tax credit in the income tax on the amount of tax-free allowance
Raise for an adult. Correspondingly, we also want to increase the child allowance.
Free co-insurance in the
Statutory health insurance receive:
We will ensure that spouses and
Children in public health insurance
remain insured without paying contributions.
We give those of the other parties, the
limit free co-insurance
or to abolish it, a clear rejection.
State education benefit is maintained:
We are the family in Bavaria in the future
companies with their own country's education money

10

support. Especially for less income strong
Families and many single parents is the
Bavarian Erziehungsgeld an important
Contribution to the household budget.
Single parent support:
Many use family policy improvements
especially single parents, about the
Bavarian upbringing money or
Increasing care services. We want to
tax relief for single parents more targeted the weaker income groups
send.
Family-friendly working environment:
The world of work is to adapt to the family,
not the other way around. We want to re-enter
facilitate to work after a family break and also the advancement and quali fi zierungschancen improve for mothers and fathers. To
we want with the Bavarian company
call a family pact Bayern into life.
We sit down on a legal claim
Full-time work after a family-related
Part time. The Public Service in Bavaria shall
a role model for family-friendly
Take working conditions.
Freedom of choice for bringing up children:
We want the parents full freedom of choice
have their educational model for their children.
The state should not patronize parents. Parents
know best what is good for their children
is. We meet parents with confidence, not
with suspicion or nannying. Parents should
free to choose their educational model and - no matter how
they decide to - get the best possible support from the state.
Secure care allowance:
With us, the care allowance remains as new
Consist family power and will as planned
2014 increases. We oppose the efforts of other parties, the newly introduced

Abolish care allowance. Need families
not less, but more support. That
Care allowance is also an important signal,
that the state's freedom of choice of parents in
Parenting respected.
Expand care facilities:
We will continue to offer Manger Square
demand to expand. In recent
we increased the number of nursery places in Bavaria quadrupled five years. Promotes No country
its municipalities so strong when cribs expansion
as Bayern: Each new day care place a
Commune is sponsored by the Free State. This
Program we are for beyond 2014
Areas with special needs for expansion
Continue nursery.
Improve care key:
We want more educators in
the nurseries and kindergartens and the Tagesp strengthen fl ege. This will create an individual possible care of the children.

Toll-free Kindergarten:
We have strong steps toward the toll-free kindergarten undertaken with the
free last year of kindergarten and the
Post off the second year of kindergarten. We want to continue.
Children's rights in the Basic Law:
We want the protection and rights of
Accommodate children in the Basic Law.
Introduce children Supervisor:
We want, in the whole society
especially in the labor market, more consideration
taken the situation of parents with children
becomes. But we want to create the post of Bavarian Children's Ombudsman.
Family TÜV:
We want to introduce a "Family TÜV".
State decisions to advance their
Family friendliness are checked.

• We want freedom of choice for
Parents in parenting.
• We want early childhood
Education intensify.
• We want children's rights into
Write Basic Law.

Improve quality of care:
We will intensify early childhood education. We want more age-appropriate educational programs, language training, environmental education
and scientific basic understanding.
Incentives for educators:
We want to give the educator profession more appreciation and attractiveness. Since 2006,
the number of specialists increased by over 50 percent in the childcare area.
We continue our training offensive
more education forces continued. We promote
Training of professionals: private vocational schools for Kinderp fl ege and specialized academies for social we allow
by government funding on the abandonment
School fees.

11

IV.

BEST
EDUCATION
J

• We want to ensure a basic education guarantee that any
legally independent primary school remains in Bavaria.
• We want to autonomous schools even more
Give clearances.
• We want a full-time guarantee the all-day offers
expand in all types of school.

unge people are everywhere in Bavaria
have best educational opportunities. Place order
we laid the foundation to successful future
for each individual. We stand for diversity and equal opportunity opportunity in education.
Every third euro in the Bavarian budget goes
in the formation. Bavaria has the education system
with the maximum permeability and the most career opportunities in Germany. In
national and international educational tests
Bayern occupied the top places regularly.
That is a great compliment to our young
People just like to the parents - especially
but also to our dedicated and competent teachers.
Diversity of talents - diversity of education:
We want every child in its uniqueness
individually promote. Every child has his own
Talents, skills and abilities. Us
want a diversity of the diversity of the talents
Educational pathways. We create best with
our proven multi-unit school system.
Individual development is best achieved in the
Educational diversity and not in the comprehensive school.
The middle schools are a great asset for
the educational landscape in Bavaria, especially
outside the conurbations.
Individual and fl exible funding:
We want school education in the first place
at the individual promotion of pupils
and students align. For this purpose, we will in all
Types of schools an additional intensification of
promoting individual conduct. We are creating more flexibility in the secondary school Intermediate. Through the flexible, each year
Teenagers within the G8 a high school in
make nine years and for the targeted subjects
repeat, for which he needs more time.
Biggest permeability:
Bavaria is the country with the most permeable
Education System. Nowhere else are there so many

12

different routes between school types as
in Bavaria. About 40 percent of students and
Students come to universities in Bavaria
not about the school, but for example,
a vocational school.
Think Education:
We go in Bavaria not the way others
Countries in the staffing levels of education
go back. Rather, we guarantee
Bavarian schools that even with declining
Pupil numbers leave the vacant teaching posts entirely within the education system
become.
Primary Warranty:
We give the parents in all parts of Bavaria, the
Warranty: Each legally independent primary school in Bavaria remains where parents
so wish.
Full-day Warranty:
We are the all-day programs in all
Types of school and throughout Bavaria comprehensive and
demand to expand. We say that
each application is approved to set up a full-time offer. By 2018, everyone should
Students up to 14 years, a full-day program
can perceive.
Free space for autonomous schools:
We want to give schools more ownership and own decision-making powers. Spirit of innovation and
educational commitment of local schools
BE fl ügeln the learning success of our students
and students. Will support through more
Freedom in education and administration for the
individual schools.
Education is not an experimental laboratory:
We want peace and security in planning
Education System. Countries with permanent
Educational reforms do not bode well for the

Development of young people. Therefore,
we say yes to optimize, but we say
No to interventions in the educational structure.
Inclusion:
We want the inclusion of children with disabilities. Students with and
without disabilities are a natural community in public schools
form. Parents know their child with his
Skills best. Therefore, you should the
Right to choose between special school and a mainstream school with inclusion entitled.
International schools:
We want the Bavarian university landscape more
align international and more international
Set up schools in all parts of the country as possible.
Early childhood education:
Education begins far before school.
We want the responsibility for early childhood
Education in the state government in a resort
focus.
Strengthen youth work:
We want the youth work in Bavaria
expand higher government funding. Social
Involvement of young people, international
Youth exchange, integration of young people
with an immigrant background, coping with
demographic change and prevention of speci fi c
Extremism, we want to share with the
Strengthen youth organizations.
Training guarantee:
Our dual training offers young
Man's best chances for the future. Together
with the Bavarian economy, we are a
Apprenticeship guarantee for any education and training capable youngsters willing
give.

Master Bonus:
Academic and Vocational training are for
us equally valuable. BERU fl iche
Training for master craftsmen will
from autumn 2013 with a Master of Bonus
1000 Euros fi nancially supported.
Tuition fee:
We abolish the tuition fees in the winter semester-2013. Bayern stands today as economically and fi nancially so successful that
We tuition fees our universities
may replace full. Other countries need to
it absorb new debt. We tell our universities to the permanent compensation for the cut correspond tuition.
Excellent universities:
Bavaria's university landscape is excellent, with
nine state universities, two of them
Leading universities, 17 state universities of applied sciences, six
state colleges of art and many
other universities in municipal, church and private institutions in all parts
Bavaria. We want to have additional excellence universities in Bavaria, including at least one in northern Bavaria. We want the
extramural research institutions
be strengthened. We are the internationalization of Bavarian universities
make the trademark. Bayern is a
Magnet for top scientists and talents
are from all over the world. We want even more
Provide an opportunity to study people
and for expanding the scholarship programs, more part-time courses for professionals
Set up and create better childcare facilities for students with children.

• We want additional
international schools in Bavaria
build.
• We want a
Training guarantee every
Adolescents an apprenticeship
procure.
• We want to have more elite universities in Bavaria.

Affordable housing for students:
We want the university cities more
Housing for students and for each year
1,000 new housing units specifically provide.
13

V.

SOCIAL
SAFETY
B

avaria is the country with the largest social security in Germany. Bavaria
has the fewest Hartz IV recipients and the
few children in Hartz IV benefit communities. We stand for a broad social
Network, the best possible health care
and reliable pension. With us is the
Generationenvertrag lived every day. Us
need the wealth of experience and the
Vigor of the elderly.

• We want the mothers pension:
Anyone who has children born and raised, should it not be discriminated against in pension.
• For us, the generation contract is lived every day.

Mothers pension:
We are mothers with children who before 1992
were born in the pension system Step
Better make step. As an introduction we are
per year from 2014 onwards an additional education
Child taken into account in the pension. This means an average of 330 euros more in pension
Year per child. Depending on the fi nancial leeway
we want to ensure complete harmonization already
tackle in the coming legislative period.
Combined pension:
We want more flexibility in the combination of additional earnings and brought forward
Old-age pension. With the combination of pension
and part-time work up to the previous
Merit, the working lives
facilitated and opportunities to a higher retirement income can be opened.
Health Fund regionalize:
We want that the health funds more
Regardless of regional differences takes.
The health fund may not concealed
Transfer system between countries
Loads Bavaria are. Therefore, we want
more regional contributions and contractual autonomy for health insurance companies and a regional
Differentiation in risk equalization
(Morbi-RSA).
Comprehensive health care:
We want a surface covering close to home

14

medical care in the whole of Bavaria
to back up. We want more established
GPs and specialists in rural areas. Therefore
we will extend the funding to settle in rural areas continue
and fi nancially increase. We want the GP-centered care. Practitioner Associations
to a private negotiating mandate with respect to the health insurance companies receive.
The existing fee ceiling should again
be abolished.
Hospital care in all
Parts of Bavaria secure:
We want the citizens in
all parts of Bavaria will ensure optimal hospital care. We want to
the fi nancial situation of hospitals
improve so that they can maintain their comprehensive medical services.
Especially hospitals in underserved
Areas are easier than ever fi nancial
Can get support. For this to
countries receive more individual design possibilities.
Uni-Klinik Augsburg:
We are the commenced construction of Klinikum Augsburg at a University Hospital
accomplish.
Location Near pharmacies receive:
We want close to home pharmacies in all
Parts of Bavaria. Especially country Pharmacies
should have a secure livelihood.
Good fl ege:
We want every elderly independent living in their own home
allow, as long as he wants to. Therefore
we want the cooperation of professionals, family members and volunteers
intensify. Outpatient fl ege, innovative
Living and fl egeformen and stationary inputs

directions should work hand in hand. Us
want to support fl LEGEND nationals and
ege them to reconcile professional and fl
facilitate. The ultimate goal is good quality
the fl ege.
P fl egeberufe upgrade:
We want egeberufe the attractiveness of P fl
boost up. Therefore, we are committed to an integrated vocational training for Krankenp fl eger,
Kinderkrankenp fl eger and Altenp fl eger a.
With affirmative action, we want to
Quality of vocational training and working conditions of fl egekräften improve.
In addition, we are committed to ensuring that with
egekräfte 100 million euros a year equipped funding the federal government for more fl
is permanently set. We want a
P fl egekammer as self-governing body for
Employees in fl egeberufen set up when
those concerned want this majority.

• We want health care in rural areas
strengthen.
• We want to fl egeberufe
enhance and promote.
• We want more participation by
People with disabilities.

Hospice and palliative care:
To a humane society is one that
Die in dignity. We want to support the hospice movement remains strong and the
Expand supply of palliative care.
We grant any form of active euthanasia
a clear rejection.
Participation for people with disabilities:
We want for people with disabilities
achieve more participation and more opportunities.
Inclusion is to be realized in all areas of life. This is in particular in
the world of work apply. Therefore, we want a
Bundesleistungs- independent and participatory law. Thereby we want the rights of
Strengthen people with disabilities and the
Detach integration assistance from the social welfare. We set ourselves the goal that Bayern
completely in the next ten years
is barrier-free.

15

VI.

HEARTS
SAFETY
I

n Bayern live the citizens
safest. Nowhere are less
Committed crimes and crimes faster
and frequently ger elucidated. Security is also a
fundamental social right. Only in a secure society can live in freedom
instead fi nd.

• We want the Bayern
safest country remains.
• We face for protection of victims
Perpetrators protection.
• We want a secure Internet.

Bayern should remain the safest country:
We want Bayern continue the safest country
is in Germany. Around 49,000 people
and employees of the police and justice work
today for the safety of people in Bavaria.
This is the highest number of employees ever.
We are Bavarian police in the coming legislative period on this high level
hold.
Zero tolerance against violence:
We say zero tolerance to crime
and violence. We want to especially juvenile offenders permanently from the crime
taken away. We want the extension of the
Youth Arrests for therapeutic purposes of
four weeks up to three months. At the same time we want the social rehabilitation of young
Offenders intensify. For this purpose, we want to
Create detention centers additional apprenticeships and places for social therapy
and the Probation strengthen.
Victim protection against perpetrators protection:
We want the rights of victims of crime
strengthen. We want to introduce a family pain and suffering. It is the closest relatives
send to victims of crime. We want,
that the statute of limitations be extended for sexual abuse. These offenses
reveal themselves victims frequently g only after years.
Minimum retention periods:
We stand for the protection of personal
Communication data of citizens and
Citizens. We need international rules

16

data protection. But we must protect gaps
in not prosecuting and security
accept. To effectively combat
serious crime are also necessary minimum retention periods for traffic data.
Respect for our cops:
We want respect and recognition for our
Police officers.
You do selflessly for their service
our country and take care of our security.
They deserve our encouragement.
Preventive detention:
We advocate that for protecting the
Population heavy criminals even after
Expiry of the prison sentence subsequently yet
may be kept backup when their
Danger persists.
Safer Internet:
Also the digital Bayern has a safe
Be Bayern. We say cybercrime
the fight on. We want to consistently combat Internet crimes such as the exchange of child pornography, extremist
Activities, terrorist activities, Hacker attacks on business and economic espionage. For this purpose, we are the police even better
equip. Transport networks, telecommunication networks or power grids are
vulnerable. We want to better
Coordination of safeguards measures
Protect attacks. The Consumer Protection in
Internet must take account of the increase in consumer risks on the Internet.
Expand video surveillance:
We want the video surveillance in public places in particular to prevent
Removing of violent offenses and vandalism.
Particularly train stations and public transportation should be intensively protected.

NPD ban:
The NPD is an anti-constitutional party
, is prohibited. It must not be that
the NPD our liberal order
fought and simultaneously by the Political Parties Act will be entitled to financing from tax revenues. Bavaria has over the Bundesrat
the current ban on the proceedings before the
Constitutional Court initiated. We want
this prohibition process with all our strength to
Lead success.
Continue to monitor the Left Party:
Bayern will stick to the observation of the Left Party by the Constitutional Protection
because of their persistence of extremist orientation.

speed and duration of the process of
comply with a maximum of six months. Targeted
it is the Federal Office for Migration and
Refugees get more staff.
The right of asylum must not for immigration in
our social systems are abused.

• We want the video surveillance in public
Removing seats.
• We want to ban the NPD.

Hassprediger quickly deport:
Criminals foreigners who fail to comply with our legal system, to quickly and
are reported consistently. This is also true
and just for Islamist preachers of hatred.
Consistently against drugs:
Importation and trafficking of illicit drugs must
to combat cross-border. Which
Import of highly dangerous drug "Crystal"
We will continue to fight consistently.
Plans of other parties to legalize
Drugs, we are strongly opposed.
For effective border controls:
We want all countries in Europe their
mutual obligations at border controls meet. EU countries have all their
Citizens decent
Living conditions offer you, regardless of
their ethnic origin. In Europe, it must
be no poverty-driven migration.
Asylum efficiently and effectively:
We want the right of asylum for the really
Persecuted as is. We want the asylum procedure
17

VII.

LIVING
MUNICIPALITIES

B

• We want the city and country
Hand in hand.
• We want the municipalities
give more autonomy.

ayerns great treasure are its vital
Localities. Here we are
home, Bayern here is experienced as home.
Our communities are the backbone of
Commonwealth. Our belief is: The
is more independent locally, the vital
homeland. Bavaria therefore supports its
Municipalities than any other country. The encouraging influx of many thousands of people each year
Bavaria is just as noticeable as the demographic fi c challenge. We want both in
a good development of all parts of the country Bavaria
Fit.
Equal living conditions
in urban and rural areas:
We want all parts and regions of Bavaria
alike can take part in the good way in Bavaria. We want the commandment "equal living conditions throughout Bavaria" in
absorb the Bavarian Constitution. The
uniform development of all parts of our
Home has constitutional status for us. About these
Institutional there will be a referendum.
Department of Homeland:
We are a Department of Homeland and
Set up self-government. This Ministry is the state target equivalent
Living conditions in town and country everywhere
serve in Bavaria. We want our local communities more autonomy and more
Give rights to own creation. Bavaria
should be decentralized. Public tasks
are not relocated to a larger unit
be when the smaller unit
may be just as well satisfied. Thereby
we make the administration leaner, more citizen-friendly, more effective and less bureaucratic.
We concentrate the power of the State to
its core tasks.

18

Financial base of municipalities strengthen:
We will strengthen the financial position of our municipalities. We want in our
Record Constitution that the State of the
Municipalities adequate funding guaranteed under its fi nancial performance. In addition there will be a
Give referendum. We are the benefits of the Free State to the municipalities in
Intergovernmental Fiscal Transfers least on
today's record level of 7.8 billion
Euro hold. At the same time to the Municipal
Financial compensation more targeted support needy communities. It remains at
our commitment to the communities that it
no removal of business tax against
will give her will. An extension of the
Trade tax on Freiberu fl er and farmers
We reject.
Municipalities fi nancially relieve:
We want our communities on the
Expenditure side relieve. We already have
ensures that the federal government gradually the cost of the basic benefits of the municipalities
takes over. That means a strong relief for municipalities in Bavaria. For the upcoming
Legislative period, we aim to ensure that the
Bund municipalities the costs
integration assistance for people with
Disability decreases.

Simplify municipal cooperation:
We want to facilitate local cooperation among themselves even further.
This can just smaller municipalities
public services for its citizens and
Shoulders citizens better. For this purpose, we want to
Regulations on municipal cooperation
simplify. A sales tax of
municipal cooperation, we reject.
More affordable housing:
We want more affordable housing
create. Bayern does have the highest level
for housing since the postwar period. Nevertheless, there is, especially in conurbations
additional needs. We want the new building
increase of rental housing through tax incentives and for the declining balance depreciation for
introduce a limited period again.
We also want to stimulate the social housing sector and to the federal funding
at least stabilize until of 2019. We want
tenants against excessive rent increases
. protect We are for all municipalities with
special flat pressure in Bavaria, the
This wish, maximum rent increases on
limit not exceeding 15 per cent in three years.

• We want more living space and
more protection for tenants.
• We want to build new
Apartments for rent by
increase tax incentives.

19

VIII.

Home
LANDSCAPE,
CULTURE

B

avaria is incomparable landscape, lived
Tradition, centuries-old culture. We stand
for the integrity of creation. We want to
Connect living in one of the most modern and advanced countries in the world so that
Bavaria his face as the home reserves.

• We want to qualitative
Put growth.
• We want a gentle
Danube expansion.
• We want natural
Flood protection.

Qualitative growth:
We want quality growth for Bayern.
We want growth is not purely quantitative
grasp, but we want to grow,
the consideration for our landscape,
our environment and our livelihoods.
We work to ensure that the growth of
Economy continues from resource use
is decoupled.
Advance climate mainstreaming:
We believe climate protection is permanent
Challenge and mainstreaming.
By 2020, we are the energy-related
Reduce CO2 emissions to well below six tonnes per person per year in Bavaria.
Our long-term goal is a further reduction to five tons.
Biodiversity secure:
We are the diversity of habitats, species
and landscapes as well as the performance
safeguard the ecosystem as a basis for a future worth living, and get. Set purpose
we on the Bavarian principle of a cooperative nature conservation, in ways Utilities
and the Bavarian ecological network.
Gentle Danube expansion:
We want a gentle Danube expansion
between Straubing and Vilshofen. Goes Us
it is not to maximize, but to optimize the relationship between infrastructure
and ecology. We realize here by way of example
an infrastructure project in consensus and dialogue
with those concerned. With us there will be no
Give barrage and no method
be introduced for the construction of a barrage.

20

Between Straubing and Vilshofen we are
a comprehensive flood protection concept
realize.
Enhance flood protection:
We will accelerate the expansion of flood protection in Bavaria. The past flood would have caused much more severe damage in Bavaria even if we do not
safeguards for 1.6 billion euros
had carried out from 2001 on. We will
current flood protection action program
temporally tighten and still want this
Decade the outstanding measures
implement.
Flood protection in harmony with nature:
We are more than ever on natural in the development of flood protection
Set solutions. Wherever possible, we want to
besides the technical flood protection also
Restoration, retaining surfaces and the floodplain
Insert flood protection.
Lively town centers:
We want our villages everywhere
reserve lively town centers in Bavaria.
Even in times of demographic change fi c
to our villages and the formative
living centers in the living environment of the
People remain.
Decentralised cultural promotion:
Bavaria's culture is as diverse as its landscape and its people. We want to
Align cultural promotion more decentralized
and at the regional and local cultural institutions
to adjust. We want cultural excellence just in Bavaria how the widespread promotion and cultural education. Our
Heritage societies, Trachtenvereine, shooting clubs and music clubs are our rich
cultural heritage continued in Bavaria. We will
They support youth development, especially in high-quality Jugendund her.

IX.
B

avaria is the land of peasant agriculture. We are convinced: The future belongs
not the large factory farms, but by the
family farms as in Bayern dominated agriculture. Bavaria farmers create healthy food and protect our cultural landscape.
For peasant agriculture:
We want the diversity of agricultural
Receive family farms in Bavaria. This diversity,
healthy food, welfare and land-based animal husbandry, care of the cultural landscape - these are the strengths of our farm
Agriculture. We stand for a policy of
Appreciation and promotion of rural
Agriculture. There is no forced shutdown
giving agricultural land. Is In Bavaria
there continue to be a stand-alone Ministry of
Agriculture and Forestry enter.
Financial stability:
We want to fi nancial stability and development prospects for our agricultural
Businesses. The plans of other parties, to reduce direct payments to farmers, we reject
from. We are lost as a result of the changed
EU farm subsidies by additional measures
compensate at federal and state level.
We want the federal government part of the result
saved the limiting of the EU budget
German agents on the Joint Task
Agricultural structures and coastal protection for agriculture provides.
No tax increases for farmers and foresters:
We have in recent years the survival
many family farms secured by tax concessions, for example, when
Agricultural diesel or in the farm transfer. We grant
those of the other parties a strict rejection,
the said facilities to turn back, include Landund foresters in the business tax
and targeted tax increases specifically against
Farmers and foresters want. With us there will be no
Give tax increases for farmers and foresters.

BAYERNS
AGRICULTURE
GMO-free Bayern:
We do not want biotechnology to the Bavarian
Fields. Commercial use of green genetic engineering will continue not ends in Bavaria instead fi.
Releases of genetically modified fl ora are not permitted in Bavaria. We reject the
Animal cloning and patents on livestock and Nutzp fl ora from.
Healthy food from Bavaria:
Bavarian food stand for diversity and
highest quality. Healthy food from domestic production will be by the people of
Bayern increasingly in demand. We want to
organic food production in Bavaria up
2020 double. We want the "brand Bavaria" for
Label for healthy foods from our
Agriculture do: with ground-based livestock production, predominantly own food basis,
Non-GMO cultivation. The production of food is the most important task of agriculture.
In addition, we are able to cultivate renewable raw materials in Bavaria.

• We want the diversity of
family farms
obtain.
• We want to fi nancial stability
for our farmers.
• We want healthy
Food from Bavaria.

Agriculture and forestry in the dialog:
We want to intensify the dialogue between agriculture and forestry and the society and to
a broader basis. From school about the
Media up to the associations. It's about appreciation and acceptance for the responsible
Work of our farmers. And it goes
to the modern demands of consumers on healthy eating, safe production and protected
Environment. We want to extend the protection of consumers and improve food safety.
Bavaria's forests:
Bavaria is the forestry and timber country number one in
Germany. Bavaria's forests provide recreation for the
People, protection for the animals and the renewable raw material wood. We want healthy and climate-tolerant forests in Bavaria and a natural and
sustainable forest management. Instead of forest closure we are for shooters By Availing. We stand
for a cooperative coexistence of hunting and forest.
21

X.

EUROPE AND
FOREIGN POLICY
B

avaria located in the heart of Europe. The European
Agreement is the biggest peace project of
Post-war history. We want the European
Integration, but we do not want a state
Europe. The Europe of the future needs strong and
autonomous regions such as Bavaria. We want
a more democratic, closer to its citizens and more transparent Europe.

• We want a better Europe
instead of more Europe.
• We want a Europe
the Regions.
• We want a stability union
and no debt union.
• We do not want Euro Bonds
and no Communitisation
of debt in Europe.

For a Europe of the Regions:
We want a Europe of the regions and not
European central government. Nations and Regions
belong to Europe's identity and must have a permanent place in a Europe of the future.

We reject our fundamental law against a
Exchange EU Constitution.
Referendums allow:
We want that in Europe political decisions of special importance the people
is interviewed directly. This applies in particular for the
Integrate new Member States, when important
Are moving competences to Brussels or
when it comes to fi nancial services in Germany
going at EU level. For this we want to nationwide
Referendums allow.
Better Europe rather than more Europe:
Europe must focus on its essential tasks
focus where joint action
of Europeans is necessary. But Europe should
not interfere in matters that Member States,
Can regulate states and municipalities themselves.
Bulbs, showerheads, tachograph or olive oil jug in restaurants come without
EU Preferences. We are for the abolition of
Initiative monopoly of the European Commission. We want
more control rights for the Bundestag and Bundesrat
towards the EU, for example by approval requirements in bureaucracy initiating projects.
Our Bavarian drinking water protection:
We want the high quality of our drinking water
obtained in Bavaria. The municipalities can best provide clean, healthy and safe in Bavaria

22

Drinking water provide. Our view has
enforced, that the municipal drinking water supply not by regulations from Brussels
must not be jeopardized. The interest must
continue to be in the hands of municipalities.
Regional promotion:
We are the regional development in the Bavarian areas that border on maximum eligible areas of our neighboring countries continue to pursue.
For a stable euro, against euro bonds:
We reject euro bonds and the pooling of debt in Europe decisively. Everyone
is responsible for its own debts. Europe
must remain a union of stability and must not
Debt Union. A stable euro can
permanently give it only if all countries a
comply with rigorous budgetary discipline.
Protection for German savers:
We are against the fact that German banks and
German savers for other European banks
should adhere. We therefore reject a European deposit guarantee fund.
No assistance without self-help and reforms:
Crisis States may support only against fulfillment of
Au fl Agen and get reforms. This course
proven and led to an incipient stabilization in the euro area. We want that crisis countries in the future an even greater personal contribution
afford to crisis management and longer own
Resources are running before they get help.
Subsidiary States Bankruptcy:
We want an insolvency law for states
is elaborated in the euro zone. For heavily indebted countries need an orderly insolvency
to be possible. These should also include the possibility to leave the euro area and temporarily reintroduce its own currency.
This process is through targeted economic aid
and the ability to re-entry into the Euro
be accompanied.

European Banking
only for big banks:
We want a European banking supervision on cross-border and system-relevant banks is limited. Particularly
our savings and cooperative banks
do not need control by a European authority. You are best served by
Financial crisis came, because they do not speculate,
but have mismanaged carefully.
Retransfer of competencies:
We want that competences of the EU on
Member States are retransmitted.
Skills transfer may not be one-way to Brussels. All areas of the
European policy should be examined on
what powers the Member States
can be transferred back. In order to limit EU competence encroachments, we are
for a competency Court from national
Constitutional judges of the Member States.
EU Commission Decrease:
We want that the European Commission reduced
is and manages with fewer commissioners. The
Number of the Commission's tasks is to
be limited. The EU Commission is in the course
the extensions were artificially inflated.
It does not have any Member State, irrespective of
its size, with its own commissioner in the
EU Commission should be represented. This saves unnecessary
Costs and prevents fl uid through bureaucracy.
Direct-dial in the European elections:
We want that in the future citizens and
Citizens directly through their MEPs
can decide. For this purpose we want for
European elections, similar to the federal and
Landtagswahl the direct election of deputies
allow in constituencies.
More rights for the Bavarian Parliament:
We want the Bavarian Parliament additional
Give rights in European issues. When com-

competences of Parliament by transferring
Sovereign rights are affected in the EU, the
State government will in future be linked to their constitutional responsibilities by law. Us
want to supplement the Bavarian Constitution.
For this purpose there will be a referendum.
No Turkey's accession:
We want a privileged partnership with the EU for Turkey. A full membership
Turkey in the EU, we reject.
Bundeswehr:
Bavaria is the Bundeswehr and our servicemen and women. They fulfill an important
Service to our country, help in the home for protection
Natural disasters and are also in a difficult
Inserts go. We want you the
Bundeswehr, whether active or reservists,
met with appreciation and respect. Bavaria
remains home to the Bundeswehr. Where in the course of
Eliminated Bundeswehr Reform locations or changed, we want support for the
affected communities in the conversion.

• We want to nationwide
Referenda on
important European issues.
• We want our Bavarian
Protect drinking water.
• We want the good
Neighborhood with the Czech Republic
deepen.

Good neighborly relations with the Czech Republic:
We have relations with our neighbors
Czech Republic put on a new basis.
For the first time after the war, a Prime Minister of Bavaria is a state visit to
Prague was. Czech Prime Minister replied that visit. We want
the newly whipped Chapter of friendship between Bavaria and the Czech Republic in
continue partnership spirit.
For a free trade zone with the United States:
We want a European free trade area with
the United States on an equal footing. Mutual trust and respect are the basis for negotiations. This creates a new heavyweight in
the global economy and a new impetus
for growth, jobs and prosperity.
Bayern as an export-oriented country shall
animals particularly bene fi.
23

XI.

COMMUNITY AND
COHESION
B

• We want to promote volunteering
and assist in the recruitment.

avaria is a strong community. The
People in Bavaria know that we stand together and stand together, especially when
it matters. Nowhere else are so
many people in voluntary commitment as
us. The practical solidarity in Bavaria is the glue
our society. This cohesion
p fl ay and promote is, we have a special obligation as a Christian Socialist Party.
We want a strong country with Bayern
its own strong identity remains. Our
History and tradition, our culture and
Our values ​​are to be the well for the future,
What makes Bavaria.

Religion remains fl ot times:
In Bavaria Religion fl remains ot times. The abolition of religious education in other countries
is a fatal mistake. Our Schools
must not only convey knowledge but
they must also convey values ​​education. Us
stand for education based on our Western Christian values ​​tradition for Kruzi fi xed
in classrooms and for religious instruction
by clergy and religious in their habit.

Accommodate volunteering in the Constitution:
We want to promote the volunteer
Commitment to the common good as a national objective in
the Bavarian Constitutional anchor.
About this constitutional amendment, it is a
Give referendum.

Expellees as the fourth tribe:
The Sudeten Germans and expellees
have a firm place in Bavaria, they are our "fourth tribe". We want that their culture
and history remains alive. We build one
Sudetendeutsches Museum and lead a
Remembrance for the victims of Flight, Expulsion
and a deportation.

Youth in volunteering promote:
We want it to recruit sufficient
the voluntary organizations in the Free State
are. We want to continue to support the relief and rescue organizations in their programs for recruitment fi nancially.
We are the state fire service training
expand.
Volunteer-MOT:
We seek to establish a "Volunteer-TÜV".
State decisions to advance their
Impact on volunteer activities
be checked, so volunteering organizations
may be involved.
Christian holidays get:
We are the Christian holidays in Bavaria
unrestricted. Bayern is a Christian-oriented country. The Christian holidays
are defining breakpoints in sequence and
belong to Bayern.
24

Jewish communities:
We are glad about the active Jewish communities and centers of Jewish life in Bavaria.

Diversity of the media landscape:
Bayern is a diverse country with many regional and local identities. The forms also
in our media landscape from. We ensure the
Diversity of our regional and local media landscape.
Integration:
Bavaria is the land of coexistence and
its successful integration. We want
People with an immigrant background in Bavaria
Opportunities and participation fi nd. Through education and
Training, by learning the German language and a job. Simultaneously
we want to open up additional opportunities for development for people who have to deal with more social obstacles than others.
We want to ensure a comprehensive approach by the
early childhood education on the social work until
approach to job placement.

Integration through education:
Educational participation is the best integration of
Children and young people with an immigrant background. Bayern is doing a lot for it, and succeed in Bavaria
therefore integration better than elsewhere.
Bavaria was the first country consistently on the
Learning the German language before the
School paid. The language support programs in
Kindergartens and primary schools we are
continue to expand. Schools with a high proportion of
Children with an immigrant background should have smaller classes - of which bene fi t German
and foreign children alike.
German citizenship instead of one-two:
We want German citizenship as
Commitment to our country and to our
Get laws and values. Naturalisation is the culmination of a successful
Its integration. The general dual citizenship and the plans of other parties for
a one-two, we reject.

• We want the Christian
Get holidays.
• We want a Bayern
strong community remains.

Museum der Bayerischen Geschichte:
We are the Museum of the Bavarian
Build history in Regensburg.
Drawing from Bavaria tradition and history
we force the future.

Election appeal
Bavaria has achieved an enormous amount. Finance, economy, education, culture - everywhere
Bayern sets the standards. Now it comes to the success of the present
also to secure for the future and expand. This is our motivation for
coming years. For this, we solicit your confidence. Enter in
State election on 15 September and in the general election on 22 September
both parts of the CSU!
25

CSU line
Franz Josef Strauss-Haus
Nymphenburgerstraße 64
80335 München

Responsible:
Alexander Dobrindt, MP
General Secretary of the Christian Social Union

Government program of the Christian Social Union
