Civil 2013 program
Program of the Free Democratic Party
for the parliamentary elections in 2013, decided to
the national party from 4 to 5 May 2013
in Nuremberg

Publisher
Free Democratic Party
Federal office
Thomas Dehler House
Reinhardtstraße 14
10117 Berlin
pressure
Altmann-Druck GmbH
Mahlsdorfer 13-14
12555 Berlin
Online version
Date: July 1, 2013

Table of Contents
Germany thus strongly
remains strong

5

I. growth, so that everyone can ascend
The basis for our prosperity - stable money
Out of responsibility for today and tomorrow - reduce debts
Relief for the rise
Strengthen middle class, received industrial base, create jobs
Impetus for a new era - affordable and secure energy
Governance for the 21st century - new rules for financial markets
Diversity of Regions received, making the most of demography, strengthen rural areas
Growing together - to act freely

7
8th
9
10
12
15
18
21
22

II. Opportunities for everyone to grow beyond itself
Seize opportunities - of lifelong education
Ticket to the world - opportunities in the labor market
Create opportunities rather than deficiency manage - social security for all
Seizing opportunities - living together healthy

25
25
30
33
36

III. Diversity so that everyone has a choice
Strengthen responsibility - in families and communities of responsibility
Strengthen Civic Engagement
Living diversity - together in an open civil society
Immigration and integration in a diverse, open Germany
Culture and media as a mirror of diversity - culture of all, culture for all
Germany as a travel destination

39
39
42
44
46
49
50

IV. Freedom, so that everyone can go his way
Fundamental rights in the digital world
Modern law for a modern society
More freedom - liberal domestic policy
Transparency and information - for fair competiton

53
53
55
58
61

V. progress so that our country will win the future
Winning the Future - new knowledge through research and development
Building for the future - Modern infrastructure and affordable mobility
Make attractive living environment - living in urban and rural areas
Make the future possible - environmental, nature and the climate for a world worth living
Responsibility for one's decisions take - act sustainably

65
66
67
70
73
75

VI. Responsibility for making Europe a stable and reliable
reliable community remains
Europe - Liberal promise and commitment
From the common currency area for Stability Union

79
80
82

VII. Peace, thus get more people more opportunities
In responsibility and partnership for more peace in the world
Human rights are the foundation of a free society
Freedom protect, create opportunities - liberal Security Policy
Partnership to take responsibility - global development cooperation

85
86
88
91
93

Germany thus remains strong
Germany is on the right track. Despite the serious crisis in Europe. This is first and foremost a
Merit of the people who are strong again through joint efforts growth, more
Labor and higher wages in Germany have created. And it is a merit of liberal politics,
because more people have the freedom to pursue their dreams and their own way
go. For this we used four years in the Christian-liberal coalition. For who
We performed many a fight in the past four years. And the results can be seen
leave: There were four good years for Germany.
We have relieved the people in our country to a total of 22 billion euros. We have the
Brought the state budget in order and the first time a structurally in 2014 for over 40 years
balanced federal budget decided. We have enforced that in all euro countries
a debt brake is introduced, and created the conditions to make Europe a
real stability union will. We defend the security of our money. We have prevented new subsidies and prohibited state aid for large corporations. We have enforced additional investments in education, in research, in infrastructure and childcare. And we have the
Strengthened civil rights and reduced bureaucracy. So that everyone can develop freely.
A strong social market economy. Safe money. Solid households. Relief for the middle. More
Educational opportunities. And strong, free citizens. That was only with us. That was only with the FDP.
We have cleared obstacles aside and created open spaces. Clearances that have been used by the people in our country to the middle of the European debt crisis, a German
To create growth miracle: During our neighbors all around suffer from the crisis, we have
created 1.6 million new jobs subject to social insurance in Germany. That is a
new job every 80 seconds. So many people like never before in history
Job. Wages rise. Our social protection systems are back on solid legs.
This is our joint success. And this way we want to go together. We know,
that will not be easy. But we also know what has made us strong in Germany: people who make an effort - out of passion, out of love for others, of responsibility. We believe in these people. We want these people who actual growth of our forces
Country, continue to strengthen, so that the next four years in Germany are good.

5

For that we want to continue:
For the "black zero" in the federal budget. We finally begin in 2016 for the first time,
Repay debt.
For the reduction of fiscal drag and the abolition of Solis and against new
Tax increases in order to strengthen the people and further the growth forces of our country.
For the independence of the European Central Bank (ECB), for the strengthening of the Bundesbank, for compliance with the stability rules in Europe - and for a stable, secure currency. Thus our prosperity and your savings remain secure.
For a diverse and free society, with a modern immigration law,
fundamental for double citizenship and more citizen participation.
For more investment in education, for better reconciliation of work and family life and
for a future-oriented infrastructure policy. Germany thus remains strong.
This is only possible with us. This is only possible with the FDP. And together we can achieve much more: full employment. Less debt. More prosperity for all.
These goals are within reach. But we must keep in Germany Course. That's what
this election.
We promise not to Germany fast and easy way to a brave new world.
Our promise is the better state, which creates free spaces instead of narrowing. Our Promise
is that everyone should get the chance to realize his dreams themselves.
Our promise is that the rise of promise the social market economy for everyone in
Germany can become a reality.
This is only possible with us. Therefore we keep Germany on course. For this, we solicit your confidence.

6

I. growth, so that everyone can ascend
The freedom of the individual is fundamental and frontier liberal politics. That is why we create the conditions that each individual can develop freely in our country, overcome obstacles and
can be happy according to his ideas. We want the rise of social promises
Meet market economy: that each person can create in our country on its own to climb.
We are on the right track. While Europe a severe financial and economic crisis
experienced, Germany posted in recent years, a success story: So many
People in work than ever before in history, the best employment opportunities for
young people across Europe, a solid state budget, rising wages and rising rents.
This success story we want to continue together with the people in our country. Us
defend the social market economy therefore decided against those principles of our
Economic order as the model of the reputable businessman or liability for own actions and
Want to set omission overridden. And we defend and strengthen the Social Market Economy
against all others who rely on the state, instead of trusting people. That is the crucial debate of the coming years.
We are strengthening the social market economy, because it is the basis for prosperity, progress and
Growth in Germany - for the pursuit of each individual for happiness. That is why we are fighting for a
stable currency. Because we want to secure the savings and retirement provisions of the people.
That's why we renovate our state budget and will begin as soon as possible,
Reduce debt mountains in order also to reduce interest payments - because we believe in our children and
Grandchildren think.
We are strengthening our middle class, because it is the backbone of our economy and good, decent
Work for the people in our country secures. And we relieve citizens, self-employed and entrepreneurs of taxes and bureaucracy. For a little more time and money at the end of the month remains -
for their own home, their own care, their own dreams. For inventors, explorers, daring and creative people to the means and the freedom to realize their ideas. And so our
Promote country.

7

Together we can do is to bring Germany further forward. We can Large
reach: a balanced federal budget, full employment, greater prosperity and more
Opportunities for all. These goals are within reach. For this purpose, we want our way, together with the
People go on in our country - the way of the social market economy.

The basis for our prosperity - stable money
A stable currency is a cornerstone of any free and fair social and economic order. Because
Inflation means the destruction of savings and the devaluation of their own life's work.
The social market economy is without a consistent policy of monetary stability does not, therefore,
conceivable. Because monetary stability protects the income and the property. Especially people
with small savings, low earners and pensioners. Inflation is the greatest social injustice that you can imagine.
Monetary stability is German raison d'état. The culture of stability is our dowry for Europe. Our bitter historical experience is: If the monetary system into disorder, there is a risk that
the whole society is disordered - with unforeseeable political consequences. Deep is burned into our collective memory, the hyperinflation of the 1920s and the devaluation of the immediate postwar period.
Some want to open to fight the debt crisis all floodgates and the debt
weginflationieren. In addition to the US Federal Reserve, the European Central Bank (ECB),
the Japanese and the British central bank expanded its extreme amounts of money. Such a large
Amount of money increases the risk of inflation.
A permanent state funding by the printing presses but is fundamentally wrong. That would be the way in
Inflation Union. We want to go on the other hand, the way the social market economy: For
stable money and secure savings.
For that we enter. For this we to occur.
We want the "black zero" the state budget and to enter the redemption of our
Achieve debt as soon as possible. We stand for solid, stable households and
Repayment of our debts. Because less government debt are the best protection against inflation. Through a consistent use for more growth we strengthen the foundations
our prosperity in Germany and Europe - and lay the foundations for solid budgets and a stable currency.
We defend the independence of the ECB. The ECB must remain committed to price stability. A state financing by the ECB, and therefore the consolidation of public budgets by inflation, we reject with the utmost determination.
We want to strengthen the Bundesbank in the Governing Council. Today the Bundesbank has in the Council of
ECB only one of 17 votes, although Germany about a quarter of the liability risk
wearing. This is not appropriate and should be changed. In extraordinary decisions such as the purchase of government bonds, the Bundesbank and the other major central banks need a veto possibility.
We stand for a stability union with solid budgets and finances. A liability union will not exist with us. A joint and several liability for government bonds
the Member States, as the euro bonds or debts redemption fund, we reject
Liberals from political, legal and economic reasons. Are instead
8th

further structural reforms appear to allow Europe to pull itself out its debt
can outgrow. Any form of emergency assistance is a last resort, when the stability of the
Euro-zone as a whole is at risk.
We want to include the monetary value stability in the Basic Law. Monetary stability is for
economic freedom growth of civil crucial.

Out of responsibility for today and tomorrow - reduce debts
The present generation it is not for, future generations to obstruct their way through mountains of debt. We have the present generation towards committed to the interest payments to
avoid. This showed us the debt crisis in Europe: We must stop - continues to finance our standard of living today at the expense of the future - in Germany and in Europe.
Debt can act like drugs: they create a vicious circle, the only in the dependence
leads and the society and democracy then at the end presents the question of existence. The crisis in
Europe teaches: who overwhelmed the state, makes him broken in truth. Who the people are
promises higher state benefits, cheating in truth about their chances. Anyone who thinks that the
To do something good citizens, by weakening the economic performance of a country,
passes in truth on the future of the country. We Liberals ensure that Germany and Europe respond properly to the current crisis: more economic power and
less government. To this basic question is this general election.
Because of this belief, we have a debt ban and the consolidation of
State Budget fought. That is why we were the first government ever spending
lowered. More revenues were used to reduce debt. Simultaneously
we opened cities and towns new financial leeway. Only through the acquisition
the cost of basic security in old age, we relieve the municipalities annually to four billion
Euro, giving them air to breathe again. Compared to plan the black-red previous government in 2009, we have the debt in the past few years more than
halved. This means more than 150 billion euros less debt than planned. By 2012
the current limit from 2016 a new federal borrowing was below 0.35 percent. For 2014, we have presented a balanced budget in structural design. This consolidation successes go beyond what 2009 even optimists would not have expected. Whether these
continued or softened sound budgetary policies will be - that's what this election.
Stable growth and sound fiscal policies - that is the way to reduce debt. New
State tasks may only be resolved if their funding is also secured long-term.
A policy complacency that promises today what needs to be paid for dearly tomorrow, informed us only in
the dependence on financial markets led. The act of a house keeping perspective solid
State also gives us the scope for a strengthening of federalism, more local self-government and the introduction of a genuine connexity principle. That is why we want to go to an even
faster consolidation immediately the debt of the federal and state budgets
begin. Lest we squander our own freedom and our opportunities - and not even the
our descendants.
For that we enter. For this we to occur.

9

We intend to continue the course of the budgetary consolidation continues and now as soon as
possible start to reduce the debt.
With a 'new sustainability formula ", the savings rule, we want to pave the way for an efficient and lasting consolidation of public finances. For this purpose, we want to ensure,
that real tax revenues, arising from growth, will only be used for debt reduction and investments. Only in this way we can plan for a
make debt-free nation actually a generation project, regardless of
all daily political conflicts and interests.
Direct aid may be granted only limited and must be connected to a fixed possible degradation path. A continuation of the aid requires a new decision of the Parliament. We want to continue to reduce subsidies and raise efficiency and savings in public administration.
We want to introduce a subsidy brake for the federal budget. Here, the total volume to be vorabgesondert of grants and tax credits and determined by the federal budget separately and gradually melted away.
Our goal is to reduce the government's share further. The purpose of the bid, on projects
To examine the possibilities of privatization.
We Liberals are committed not to increase the burden on people and businesses through taxes and fees. The aim of us liberals remains the reduction of control and tax burden on citizens and entrepreneurs. To creeping tax increases
to prevent the so-called cold progression, the income tax rate has to be adjusted regularly.
The Basic Law, we want to anchor the half division principle. Because more than half
the Convention on income taxes to the state dissipate is disproportionate and
power hostile. Therefore, we need in addition to the debt brake, a brake control to protect the citizens, so that other political majorities do not immeasurably with
Tax burden.
The financial relations between the federal, state and local authorities, we want to comprehensively re
arrange. This project has a chance of success only if the federal government, states and municipalities
it in the context of a new federalism Commission together, in partnership and
resolutely tackle. The focus is on reforming the federal-state fiscal equalization, the growth and thrift rewarded and not punished, the degradation
of double responsibilities and mixed financing and the expansion of the financial autonomy of the states and a federal competition. Our goal is, between federal and
Land taxes more to separate. At the same time we want to in our Constitution a real
Anchor concomitant financing: Municipalities may be entrusted by the Federal Government or countries only with additional tasks when funding is ensured by the legislator. Finally, apply must: Who orders, who pays.

Relief for the rise
Chances we create, by removing obstacles and reducing burdens that hinder people their ascent. That is why we are fighting Liberals decided against additional
Burdens for citizens and businesses - and for the reduction of bureaucracy, to simplify
the tax system and for the relief of citizens.

10

That's why we have the increase in child benefit and child allowance to families in
our country relieved by an annual 4.6 billion euros. For a family of four, this means:
at least 480 euros more per year. Has a gradual reduction of the pension contributions
brought a further annual discharge of eight billion euros. We have the tax
Environment for SMEs improved, reduced administrative costs in Germany at eleven billion euros and reduce the government's share of 48.1 to 45.2 percent. First
Steps to simplify the tax law are implemented, workers package was of
we raised to 1,000 euros.
With our policy we have created new spaces, so that people in our country their
Can develop strength and creativity. We have a against great odds, their lives
Certain extent simplified and reduced loads. We have the people and thereby strengthen the forces of growth in our country - and thus the conditions for a stable
Created recovery and sustainable fiscal consolidation. We want to do more.
For that we enter. For this we to occur.
Our goal remains the relief of the working middle. A higher tax burden for
Citizens and businesses, we totally reject. High tax rates do not automatically lead to higher government revenues, but prevent growth, destroy jobs and thus endanger the existence of countless workers and their families. The
Introduction of EU taxes will be rejected by us.
We still see the need for a fundamental reform of Einkommenund of corporate tax law. We rely on a simple, low and fair tax system with moderate sets and a few exceptions - ideally in
a stepped tariff. The relief of the working middle and budgetary consolidation
are not mutually exclusive. In fiscal consolidation, we focus primarily on
Task review and cut costs. The State may at any level spend more than it earns. Government debt may not set up but need to be addressed now. This goal remains a priority.
Our goal is that government spending ratio to reduce the sense of "private before State" on. Therefore, we will consider in the future, what projects and tasks can be privatized sensibly.
Regardless of the amount of tax savings further simplification of tax legislation
Citizens and businesses time and money. The inventiveness of the financial management, the ever new reporting requirements and bureaucratic control systems at the expense of
Developed middle class, we want to set limits. In this context we want to
introduce rate schemes Raise Packages, manufacture abolished at the expense of the middle class flat-rate schemes again, and reporting obligations and
reduce other bureaucracy.
We want to fight the cold progression. Currently, it is so that the people in spite
Have wage increases may be less in your pocket, because the extra income is eaten up by automatic tax increase and inflation again.
We therefore intend to review the effects of cold progression every two years
and adjust the income tax rate, so that the state is not at the expense of citizens
enriched by the inflation.
In 2019, the solidarity pact expires. Until that time, the construction helps East are gradually reduced to zero. We want the solidarity surcharge in the course
this legislature completely degrade gradually.

11

Effort should be rewarded. The tax class V, which recording an Occupation
appear especially for women after a family break fiscally often unattractive
can, therefore, we want to abolish. Families must be taxed performance-related.
The allowances of the children should be raised gradually to the level of allowances for adults. The Ehegattensplitting we want to maintain. We speak
we made for its extension to same-sex partnerships. For the
tax relief from the splitting is consideration for the responsibility of the spouses to each other. This responsibility is a priority in relation to the claim
a spouse on minimum social protection against the state and solidarity.
The Ehegattensplitting thus symbolizes both social legislation and subsidiarity
the primacy of private responsibility from state redistribution. But appropriate purchase obligations exist not only between spouses but also between life partners. Therefore, they should be treated as, moreover, with spouses here
become.
A tougher Erbschaftsteuerrecht and a property tax and a property tax would be an unbearable burden for small and medium-sized enterprises and would to a massive outflow of capital and wealth from Germany
lead and destroy many jobs. We reject.
We want to reform the real estate tax law, abolish the current law review
and the municipalities grant flexible assessment rates, which the local conditions and
the type of use can be considered. This is not of an increase
Local tax revenue result. The business tax we want to convert it into a municipal income and corporate tax system. A first step is the removal of today's commercial tax additions. The current non-income taxation for example, rents and interest leads to an effective substance taxation - and thereby put at risk, especially in economically difficult times, the existence of
in particular small and medium enterprises.
The withholding tax on capital gains has proven itself. It allows international
coordinated capital taxation, preventing tax evasion, avoiding Privacy legally precarious control measures. By raising the level of allowances
for investment income from interest and dividends, we would like a private households
Offer incentives for retirement.
We are committed, the system of excise duties (for example, coffee tax)
to verify their usefulness. The Taxman thereby possibly no longer needed can be usefully employed for combating VAT fraud.

Strengthen middle class, received industrial base, create jobs
The social market economy creates opportunities so that each person develop freely in our country
can. We want to achieve full employment, so that everyone gets the chance to rise by his own efforts and improve its living conditions. But is a prerequisite for
a strong, dynamic and innovative economy that creates jobs and opportunities for inputs and
Ascent offers. Therefore, we want the industry in Germany and the middle class - the
Further strengthen and promote the craft as an economic factor - the backbone of our economy. Therefore, we are fighting against a planned economy tendencies and against all steps towards
of unit wages, unit funds and unit pensions. Instead, we rely on more competition
and on the strength of liberal governance. Monopolies and cartels destroy the operability
of the market system. We therefore call liberals strengthening of competition

12

right including the possibility of unbundling. This creates opportunities, prospects and future.
The German economy, in particular the strong middle class has led us from the crisis faster
as almost all the other countries of the world. The involvement of family entrepreneurs, self-employed and freelancers has saved millions of jobs and creating new ones. That this is possible
was also a merit of liberal economic policies. We have companies in Germany
decisively relieved at the bureaucratic costs, eliminates krisenverschärfende rules in the corporate tax and threaten the existence of rules dispelled in inheritance. Interventions in the Social
Market economy in favor of large companies such as Opel, Karstadt or Schlecker we suppressed. We are committed to greater competitiveness and secure, affordable energy supply
on. Decided we are opposed every attempt, Germany's competitiveness
to weaken and undermine the social market economy.
The freedom of our economic system will also strengthen the international competitiveness of German companies. We have the Insolvency Law revised exempt micro-entities from unnecessary red tape and made the necessary adjustments in terms of patents, in cooperative law and consumer rights.
Together we have so new entry and career opportunities for the people in our
Country created: alone 1.6 million new jobs subject to social insurance since of 2009.
This way to have gone successfully, is to the credit of workers, entrepreneurs and
SMEs. It is the merit of people who make an effort every day. These people make us strong. And we want to make these people more strongly. For this, we defend
the social market economy.
For that we enter. For this we to occur.
The inheritance and gift tax we want to further develop and revenue neutral
simplify. A uniform assessment basis pursuant to the fair value connected,
with moderate tax rates and reasonable allowances, thereby avoiding unnecessary
Bureaucracy, creates legal certainty in the business succession and strengthens confidence in Germany as a location. For each company succession inheritance tax needs to be generated from future income. We want
guarantee through ceilings and reasonable deferral rules. The old-fashioned fare levels in the inheritance, in which each next level basically from
engages first Euro on, should be replaced by a sliding scale of usual form, which
each of the next stage picks up rate until the onset of the next stage.
We want to switch from the current nominal taxation for the actual taxation
VAT to secure liquidity medium-sized enterprises and to facilitate the prosecution of VAT fraud considerably. We want a basic,
aufkommensneu-tral reform of value added tax with the aim of a significant simplification.
The corporate tax rate must be modernized growth friendly. For this purpose we want
possible legal form and financing neutral designing and introduce the so-called transparent taxation for small and medium sized limited liability companies. After that small and medium-sized limited liability companies could be comparable with taxing people company.
In the group taxation, we need a competitive group taxation law on the Austrian model. Transformations within the group may not
the income nor the real estate transfer tax are subjected.

13

To facilitate the formation of equity in private companies, which are taxed according to the income tax, we want a tax deduction on equity
implement, as it is already successfully implemented in other European countries.
All expenses that were caused by the operation, should also in the future
current levels remain deductible.
We want to improve the conditions for small and medium enterprises continue to strengthen its competitiveness. The implementation of the new Basel capital and liquidity requirements (Basel III) must be SME-friendly, non-bureaucratic and cost-saving. Otherwise, lending to small and medium enterprises would be more difficult, although SME loans demonstrated by personal
Liability a low risk group. Together with the provinces, we want to
Strengthen financing for small and medium-sized enterprises and the de minimis threshold in the
Further stepping up regional support. We will make the legal form of the cooperative more attractive for entrepreneurs, especially for start-ups of social enterprises.
The reduction of expensive and unnecessary bureaucracy must enjoy political priority.
Therefore, to continue a ministry (eg the Ministry of Economy) comprising
be in charge of this subject area. Only in this way gets this concerns a strong
Mouthpiece in the Cabinet.
The skills shortage is an obstacle to growth, which threatened many jobs in many industries. We focus on strengthening education, training and lifelong learning as well as a flexible and family-friendly labor market. Skilled workers is a task for society. It begins with the ability and motivation of youth training as well as reducing the drop-out rate
vocational training, goes beyond the work-life balance, on the use
the competence of senior citizens to a modern immigration law.
We intend to use the innovative strength of the German middle class and the German
Indus trie further strengthen. For this, we support the development of technology and
Innovation clusters through targeted networking of universities, colleges and research institutions as with potential investors. The tax incentives
for Venture Capital and Business Angels we want to improve and intensify the tax incentives for research and development in the context of house-keeping capabilities. Germany has to offer young companies the opportunity to develop
and must not be left behind in the high-tech.
The craft needs a fair chance. This includes access to sources of finance
and public contracts. The international competitiveness of the craft begins here in our own country. Therefore, we want the local conditions on site
a craft fair transport policy, effective skilled workers and the degradation
of bureaucracy, for example in the public procurement, improve - we
want to strengthen the craft.
We want the Handwerksordnung and related laws accordingly
develop the European regulations continue to allow more people without superfluous
Offer bureaucratic hurdles their services, securing their own income, jobs
can create and pay taxes and social security contributions.
The future of the site in Germany depends largely on that we strengthen the innovative power of industry and SMEs - and not slow down. We Liberals are committed to new ideas and business get a chance and not
be stifled by bureaucracy in the bud. In particular, start-ups need in the green

14

up phase especially freedom - freedom against excessive bureaucratic requirements, the time and money to devour.
The competitiveness and innovation in the new Länder must be further improved, to self-sustaining growth after the expiry of Solidarity Pact
2019 allow. There must continue to uphold affirmative action
Watering distribution. In the internationalization of East German export industry, we see one of the main tasks of economic policy and promotion. Increasing exports
contribute significantly to securing economic growth and employment. Given the increase of economic activities of state-owned enterprises (StateOwned-Enterprises) at national and international level, we are committed to the introduction of global standards for safeguarding competition.

Impetus for a new era - affordable and secure energy
Growth creates new opportunities. That is why we want the competitiveness of our economy
obtain. The adopted energy policy is an opportunity - it is to make successful but
also a show of strength. You will only succeed if the remaining decisions during the braking of the increase in electricity prices, in better control of the expansion of renewable
Energy and the operating framework for the construction of new replacement power plants now immediately
done. Here, a market-based approach should be chosen.
Germany can be an important stimulus for a new age. But we also need it
eighth, that we do not undermine the basis for the competitiveness of our economy and social cohesion. Therefore, for us security of supply and affordability as well
important as rapid progress in environmental protection. We Liberals are the energy turnaround with
Make commitment, a sense of proportion and realism to be a success.
Energy needs medium-sized enterprises, trade and industry remain affordable for all citizens.
We will not allow that energy prices are on the social question. Each of the people
overpaid euros for energy they lack in order to realize their own dreams and goals. Everyone
of the economy overpaid euros for energy makes life more expensive and puts jobs at risk. That is why we want to check the schedule and the control action of all support measures regularly and, if necessary, adjust. In the long term economically viable and environmentally sound and climate-friendly political opportunities for a clean, safe and affordable energy supply without ideological blinkers be used.
Because we want affordability and security of supply, we have the necessary financial
Created the framework for the accelerated energy turnaround and legally redefined network expansion.
We provide the accelerated expansion of energy networks with simultaneous participation of
Citizens safe. We have new programs for the energy performance of buildings, for the research and
Development of renewable energies and new storage technologies launched. Have addition
we already established more competition in the Renewable Energies Act (EEG) - and work
Next to it, to eliminate the prescription of red-green expensive over promotion. We want more market
and get out of the planned economy. The setting of electricity prices by the policy may not be permanent.
We support the introduction of an electricity price brake so that by 1 January 2014, electricity prices
not rise again. New installations of renewable energies and beneficiary must
make a reasonable and readily achievable contribution to stabilizing the EEG apportionment.

15

We have ensured that interventions in legally binding funding commitments not included in the
Proposal are.
Liberal energy policy ensures that the energy supply remains secure, clean and affordable.
For that we enter. For this we to occur.
The state must not enrich to rising energy costs. As effective immediately
Measure is intended to reduce the current tax on the minimum level set by the EU
become. The countries have to participate in the return of revenues to the taxpayer. We want to in the next legislature a new initiative to
the tax burden on citizens in the energy performance of buildings on the way
bring to be then shared between federal and state governments.
To make the entire energy market of market economy, is a rapid and
fundamental reform of the EEG required. We have submitted a reform concept in the last legislature. The renewable energies are to be introduced to the market faster and more consistently than in the past. Our goal is that renewable energies are the latest in the market, when the last nuclear power plant in Germany
is turned off. We liberals stand for legal certainty and protection of legitimate expectations in
investments. Therefore, all proposals for reform always refer only to new installations. In the further development of the conveyor system, we will consider, in particular the financing of small and medium enterprises.
There is a clear step plan to be developed quickly and planned all plant sizes and technologies should necessarily switch from the fixed feed-in tariffs in the direct marketing after. It requires appropriate concepts to smaller plants from
relieve administrative burden of direct marketing. Simultaneously, the direct marketing tools should be developed for renewable energy. The previous EEG-market premium is to be replaced by a market premium on the market price. Him
should be degressive and but no longer distinguish between technologies on the plant sizes.
Feed-in tariffs and market supplements are to be subjected to all technologies a significantly higher fee reduction per year for new installations. The future expansion
of renewable energies should be carried out uniformly and without overheating. The "breathing lid" as an automatic adjustment mechanism should therefore be extended by the photovoltaics to all technologies. Achieved a technology development goals,
so the promotion of the EEG is to be terminated. Exceptions are possible only in systems,
via the production of energy also still have an important role.
We Liberals talk in favor of the EU internal market for renewable energy
decided to move forward. We strive for a guaranteed minimum share of renewable
Energies throughout the internal market. The introduction of a European funding model
- Also in the form of a lot of model - is made possible by a majority decision of the Member States. Should a European solution in sight can not be realized, Germany should in turn implement a national model amount swiftly.
Exceptions EEG apportionment and electricity tax for energy-intensive manufacturing companies, which are in international competition, are to secure employment
and economic growth at the industrial site Germany indispensable. Otherwise
threaten job losses due to migration of the industry. It was also correct to equate industrial SMEs with large companies in the industry. The most important
However, the aim is to limit the costs of the energy transition as a whole. Companies that

16

not in international competition, should not be encouraged, as this is the
Levy for private households and the SME sector unduly increased.
We strongly support the development of a partnership in the field of renewable energies with North Africa. The Union for the Mediterranean Solar Plan or the DESERTEC project in the long term contribute to the diversification of
Energy supply and provide for stability of the power supply. In a first step
we are the commenced construction of solar thermal power plants in North Africa under
continue to support development cooperation. In a second step we want
Legal security for market access of solar and wind power from North Africa to the EU
create - if possible in the context of a European model quantity. Legal certainty
also needs to be created for the transit pipeline in early cooperation with the countries concerned.
With the introduction of a nationwide coordinated network development plan, the basis
for an offshore network development plan and numerous legal provisions for an acceleration of the planning and approval procedures we have taken substantial measures for an accelerated network expansion. Now it is important that
the expansion projects are implemented quickly by the network operators. In this case, the
Countries in the duty of the existing instruments for rapid implementation in full
To use scope.
Decentralization offers an opportunity to strengthen competition and open up energy markets for the SME sector. We support the development of engineering systems to intelligent networks (smart grids), the active in different energy demand
respond, thereby increasing the efficiency of the energy used in the network.
The Federal Network Agency is to be granted immediately the possibility of the feed-in of new large-scale plants to regional and temporary override in unstable network conditions by decision. This creates an incentive for large-scale systems of regional
To build to meet demand. The feed-in is to get otherwise, to
to give small suppliers a fair chance and the pressure on network operators to
Obtain network expansion.
Not only kilowatt hours, but also the provision of power to reward
become. If the regulation of the electricity network such models to stabilize the market
Electricity network allow. This should however be taken into account in their design, the interests of consumers. We therefore call for clear and reliable framework
for investments in reserve and replacement power plants, such as the amendment of the
Energy Industry Act has been already initiated. This is the introduction of a
Incentive system at the federal level and in the medium term a new, market-ausgestaltetes promotion and market design required. Only in this way can the current restraint
terminated for investments and security of supply be guaranteed permanently during peak load periods.
We want to seize the opportunities for energy storage. We therefore support good
Framework for operational and efficient storage options, for example,
for power to gas models, pumped storage power plants or short-term storage of
Power by battery technology or other deployable efficient storage options.
We want to secure and improve the supply of natural gas in Germany. In addition to new
Pipelines which make us less dependent on gas imports from a single country, and a
better access to the supply chain of LPG - taking advantage of the existing domestic gas network - we want more competition in the gas market -
in Germany and Europe.

17

The energy concept may be implemented not only isolated in the electricity sector; reform
the Renewable Heat Act is long overdue. We need a clear perspective for
the owners and the craft. We want to introduce a lot of model which obliges distributors of oil and gas, a certain proportion of renewable heat to the
Bringing market. This requirement may render itself through biogas feed. Alternatively, they may evidence of heat quantities of certified facilities other
Technology purchase. Regulatory law, the existing buildings to each owner
Use of renewable heat obligation we reject as well as from compulsory renovations.
For a sustainable energy market include increasing energy efficiency in
all areas. The incentives should first of all come from the market. Also in
Industry, we want to more intensive counseling and know-how transfer of businesses
Use energy efficiency potential. One focus will be in the medium
Economy set. The renovation rate of existing buildings should be significantly increased in order to improve energy efficiency. This is due to political conditions
are supported.
The implementation of the EU energy efficiency directive in German law to the principle
Follow "incentive rather than coercion." All measures have to the individual citizen and the individual companies have so many decision leeway as possible and the existing measures will be fully credited to the European requirements. Bevormundungsmaßnahmen as bans on light bulbs or patio heaters, we reject Liberal
from. Anyone buying power, should have an incentive to save, but no regulations
get how he can use energy.
The extraction of shale gas by fracking is a chance that the success of
Energy policy can contribute. But it will be only used in a densely populated country like Germany, where social acceptance and highest environmental standards are ensured. For this is a proper and responsible
Legal framework necessary. Of the materials used and processed, no toxic hazards are entitled to expect. Above all there must be no risk of groundwater and drinking water. For this, the water authorities to obtain a comprehensive veto. In water protection areas we want to exclude Fracking principle.
We are committed to ensuring that in future all responsibility and federal responsibilities related to the power generation and energy supply in central coordination of
Federal Ministry of Economics and Technology (BMWi) will be bundled. This should
a frictionless as possible planning, monitoring and controlling the energy transition process as well as a maximum guaranteed to market solutions. The success of the energy turnaround is critical for the future of German
Economy and the financial burden of consumers, crafts, commercial and industrial. Energy policy is an indispensable part of economic policy. The responsibility should therefore lie with the relevant ministry.

Governance for the 21st century - new rules for financial markets
A powerful and stable financial system is essential in the social market economy for
an innovative and successful economy, reliable retirement of men and
Public sector financing. It ensures demand and risk-appropriate access to
Finance and thus is room for investment and sustainable forms of investment. On
functioning financial system is thus the progress and growth of the economy and society.

18

For this we need free, but not disorderly financial markets. At this disorder wrong decisions in central banks, supervisory authorities, rating agencies and financial institutions have been instrumental
contributed. The past years have shown that we need a pugnacious and fortified
Social Market Economy - a new governance for the financial markets of the 21st century. they
should again become a tool for growth and progress that serves the people.
The German universal banking system with its three pillars - private banks, cooperative banks and savings banks - has proved its worth during the crisis, because universal banks their risks
can distribute to multiple asset classes and why in times of crisis more options
have to generate liquidity as specialized banks. We want to strengthen this system and where it
Gave negative developments, additional taxes through a new regulatory law.
In Germany, we are headed. With a bank insolvency law for systemically important banks
we have brought together risk and liability again. Now there has to be fast a similar scheme at European level. We have improved the control of the credit rating agencies and the
Banking supervision strengthened. She gets stronger rights of intervention when banks in a crisis situation
are. And the banks are using the newly introduced bank levy for the first time for the cost of
Used cope with a financial crisis.
We have learned the lessons from the financial and economic crisis and already tackled much to
the social market economy to strengthen. The most important measures taken to stabilize the markets
are introduced or will be introduced gradually. However, the reorganization of the financial markets is still
not completed. Germany needs a financial and financing a permanent location
Perspective. We want to better equip the financial system against crises. This requires clear
Rules and predictable framework. This includes the problem of systemic importance "too
big to fail ". Opportunities and risks must be in a healthy balance.
For that we enter. For this we to occur.
Global economies require global financial markets. It needs a sustainable reform
the regulatory framework in the banking sector and in the financial markets as a whole, to risks
avert for the economy and economic development as well as to allow social stability. In order to ensure an effective state control, it is necessary to
one hand internationally stricter rules and more competitive on the other national and international institutions to fulfill their important financing function.
These include effective risk buffers and risk management systems for all market participants, including the trading systems. In addition, transparent processes and risks,
clear lines of responsibility and liability rules and effective control. Beyond all
But rules and controls is most important that risk and liability are brought together again. Private risks taken must be borne privately. This is
the best risk protection for all.
The purchase of government bonds by banks within the euro zone should be similar to
Corporate loans are backed by equity.
We want to improve the supervision of banks and other financial institutions continued. But we do not just want a larger supervisory authorities and bureaucracy in banks
multiply. We need a critical reflection about why throughout the financial crisis, the banking supervision has failed so dramatically in spite of several thousand employees and millions of petty controls. No single bank lopsided was supported by the
Supervision uncovered. We do not necessarily need more supervision, but in any case, better supervision. In implementing the common European Banking
We place strict emphasis on a strict institutional separation between central bank and
Supervisory functions. This includes not only an organizational separation, but above all

19

lem to set up an independent decision-making bodies in the supervision column. Systemically important banks should be controlled by a common European supervision.
An access to other banks should be possible, if the national supervision in the Member State concerned is not sufficient to ward off systemic risks.
We welcome the establishment of the banking supervision at the ECB's headquarters in Frankfurt am Main and
are committed to the common European Banking the highest
legal standards. A standardization must not lead to a softening
the rules lead. Simultaneously, the competition between different banking systems and needs
different business models are preserved as well as regional or transnational industry structures. These include in particular the proven systems in Germany the savings banks, cooperative banks and building societies.
Access to national deposit insurance fund or the national restructuring fund we reject. The German savers are not just standing with their money for the financial risk of other banking systems. Rescue or recapitalization measures for banks from the European rescue packages are only permissible while joint liability of the respective country of domicile.
We do not want companies to be systemically important. In approving
of mergers and acquisitions in the financial sector should therefore be taken in the future that therefore no systemic risks to be justified.
To the stability and competitiveness of the banking sector in Germany permanently
restore, particularly to the troubled Landesbanken
Business model and balance sheet to the extent attributed that their public-service mission
is appropriate. For risks taken all shareholders must be taken in the co-responsibility, the savings banks, in so far as they have held shares. The state should withdraw from these banks gradually. Other subsidies at the expense of private competitors or even higher loads of the taxpayer to the risk of already-supported institutions, in particular in the rescue of
Landesbanken are unacceptable and harmful to the site as a whole.
The capital market is next to the banking system an important part of the financing of our future and retirement. Again, we want to continue to crises and
future solid framework work. This also includes venture capital and private equity. Germany owes its strong position in international competition
not only innovation, but also the confidence in investments and production Made in
Germany.
New taxes, the supervisory and regulatory gaps in the area of ​​financial markets
not close. We are against tax models that create bureaucracy, can not be effectively collected - and make the wrong end: the businesses, savers and
citizens who plan for their retirement.
We want to strengthen the rights of shareholders in their company. They are the owners. The managers are their managers. This ratio must be more reflected in the shareholders' rights - and to sustainable and to deliver defensible investment decisions under risk aspects. Therefore we want to, for example, the
Strengthening influence of the Annual General Meeting on the remuneration of management, by
Remuneration of directors above certain frameworks and amounts to the approval by the shareholders socialize. Interventions in ownership and shareholder rights -
for example by imposing certain quotas in filling supervisory positions - we reject.

20

Diversity of Regions received, making the most of demographics, rural areas
strengthen
We want that people everywhere in Germany have the opportunity to go their way - no matter
whether in cities or in rural areas. Germany is a diverse country, a country of regions. In rural areas, half of all people of our country lives. An often strong medium-sized corporate culture creates jobs, innovation and progress - with
Effect often far beyond the region: Many world market leaders come from rural areas.
Of particular importance, moreover, has a modern agricultural and food industry as well as in
Gion addition: Many world market leaders come from rural areas.
Of particular importance, moreover, has a modern agricultural and food industry as well as in
many regions an attractive tourist offer.
We want to shape the demographic changes and make them a chance. To do this well
be in the future in rural areas all possibilities for everyday life and yet easily accessible.
This includes the security of supply for the elderly in all areas of life as well
Future prospects for young people a. That is why we have launched a comprehensive package of measures to strengthen the rural areas on the way and with the country Ärztegesetz a
taken an important step to establish a good and comprehensive medical care also
continue to ensure.
The strengths and the diversity of the German regions is to preserve and strengthen. Here comes
the preservation of jobs is of central importance. That is why we are committed to a strong
Middle class and for an independent, entrepreneurial agriculture and food industry a.
That's why we have the taxation of agricultural diesel and multi-peril insurance permanently
reduced. And with the adoption of the Animal Welfare Act, the Animal Health Act and
a law to reduce the use of antibiotics in livestock farming, we have animal welfare
reconciled with the efficiency in livestock farming. That
Forest Act, we have future-oriented reform and adopted a national forest strategy.
We stand for a modern, entrepreneurial and sustainable agriculture. We stand for the
Diversity in rural areas and we stand for the chances of the future and perspective for all
People. Everywhere in Germany.
For that we enter. For this we to occur.
We want to break new ground in order to obtain equal living conditions in all regions of Germany and to preserve the diversity of the regions. For this purpose, we are strengthening
municipal centers, where social and technical infrastructure can be kept inexpensive and centrally accessible.
People should be as free as possible at any age and in any situation to
decide where and how they want to live. This requires appropriate framework conditions: In the transport infrastructure, in the social infrastructure and in the communication infrastructure. We want to improve all three areas of infrastructure, for example by
Promoting technical assistance systems and other telemedicine applications.
Therefore, a rapid, nationwide expansion of broadband communications is an urgent
required. In addition, we want to strengthen the home care services, in order to ensure the supply just older people nationwide. At the age we want to
Facilitate remain in their own homes, help technical assistance systems such as home emergency. In addition, accessibility must be part of the training content of architects, craftsmen, planners and engineers are.
We want to ensure affordable mobility in rural areas in the future. Of the
Individual motorized transport is here indispensable for many people. A price increase
through higher taxes or the abolition of the commuter tax, we reject reason.
21

Support development of appropriate infrastructure - maintaining and - where necessary
we.
We want the conditions for conventional and organic farming
continue to improve through free-market reforms, so that farmers successfully on
May consist market. Therefore liberal agricultural policy supports farmers in their entrepreneurial freedom and campaigns for equal conditions of competition within
EU one. For the wine, we welcome following the expiry of the current regime
the implementation of the Single European vineyard management system.
We stand for a practice-oriented agricultural research and improved knowledge transfer. The reduction of the natural strain, raising the standards in livestock production and increased use of renewable raw materials requires intensified
Research. An increase in efficiency is in terms of sustainability.
We are committed to the responsible use and further exploration of modern
Biotechnology. The security of the breeding method has proven over decades of practice and was confirmed by extensive risk research. The use of
of the EU approved after a careful, scientific examination grades must also
be possible in Germany.
The anchoring of animal protection in the Basic Law is a great success for us. We sit
us for an animal-friendly and animal health promoting an animal husbandry and nutrition.
We want the protection of animals in livestock farming at European
Advance level on a scientific basis and in line with the economy. Pflanzenbestäubende insects must be protected because they also yield
ensure crops.
In the bioenergy, we make sure to reduce competition between tank and plate. Another expansion of bioenergy is increasingly on the use of residual and
Coproducts done. In the production of biomass for energy use
are alternatives to the cultivation of maize, for example, short rotation plantations to use.
We are committed to sustainable forest management that takes into account the requirements of the material and energetic use of wood and biodiversity in forestry.
The aim of the intervention Compensation Scheme of the Federal Nature Conservation Act is to protect the
Nature, not agricultural mitigation and its forestry land. Use restrictions should be reduced to the bare minimum; Expropriations we reject.
Trust is the most valuable asset for the agriculture and food industry. That's why
we want more transparency, certainty and thus confidence between producers and
Customers produce. We want the empowered consumer with the necessary information
ask for a free and informed choice for shopping and food available.
Therefore, we want a consistent process for labeling all food and
Consumer goods in their production at any stage of manufacture genetically modified organisms are involved. Only in this way is a full investigation of the consumer
possible.

Growing together - to act freely
Where more people have the opportunity to go their own way and their own goals
track, it is possible to achieve more together and grow together. For creating the
Globalization enormous opportunities. The world can benefit greatly from further cooperation. Is For
it is necessary to remove obstacles out of the way and to create space.
22

As an export nation, Germany is dependent on this freedom in trade. Restrictions on the
German exports or penalties because of our foreign trade surpluses we reject. Us
are in a globalized world, in competition with countries like China, India and Brazil only
then can be made if we are stronger together in Europe - and not by we
weaken itself.
Free trade also helps in the fight against global poverty. Because we share these opportunities
should take, we sit still for substantial impetus for further liberalization of
Trade and for the removal of obstacles a. For open markets. For mutual benefit.
So we can fuel growth and prosperity worldwide. That every opportunity
should get to learn more and achieve more. Considering that we are better together
and live better. In Germany and in the world.
For that we enter. For this we to occur.
We want growth and prosperity around the world through free trade. Therefore we rely on
the free movement of goods and services in the EU and a further opening of
World economy. We place high standards on human rights, labor safety,
Consumer protection, environmental protection and health to. We want free trade worldwide
forge ahead and break down barriers to trade of all kinds consistently. Free trade guarantees
Progress, jobs and growth, promoting the exchange of cultures and creates
Peace. A rapid conclusion of the current Doha Round in the World Trade Organization
would therefore be a big step forward for all. As long as the negotiations are not progressing
However, the opportunity must be seized, bilateral free trade agreements with other
Close economic powers. Therefore, we Liberals support the EU negotiations
India, Mercosur and Japan. We will continue the negotiations for a free trade agreement between the EU and the USA.
We want to increase the export potential of the German economy by opening up new emerging markets. This includes in particular countries that have so far been less attention to economic policy and entrepreneurial. All these countries have
large domestic markets and develop very dynamically. We want this to build on the successful foreign trade initiative of the federal government that has the foreign trade policy and its instruments are aligned and bundled new. The aim is the
To strengthen the interests of German companies in these countries and to support them actively.
The German economy needs raw materials to continue its successful course and thus
Growth and jobs to be secured in Germany. Access to raw materials is not
only technological options dependent, but also on the economic
and political conditions. We therefore want more raw material partnerships
conclude with countries and at the same time trade barriers and distortions of competition
break down.

At the same time we want to support the economy through targeted programs further in diversifying our raw material sources, exploration and mining activities and concession acquisition and investments. This also includes guarantees for the Untied Loan and Hermes coverage in developing new or more difficult
Markets. We also want to provide advice and support in particular small and medium enterprises in securing raw materials, improving resource efficiency and the
Further enhance networking.
We want to modern and effective intellectual property protection to future incentives for risky investments in new technologies, business processes
23

and to provide creative works. That's for the increasingly digitized knowledge and
Media in Germany is essential, of its global competitiveness significantly
relates from the skill and intelligence of its researchers, developers and artists. For this necessary international agreements are transparent and understandable to discuss and adopt.
We want to involve the German SME sector more strongly than before in the foreign trade policy, for example through the development of medium sized companies in foreign markets
and support for the development of exports of innovative services. In development cooperation, we intend to expand the cooperation with the economy. The
Conditions for investments by German as well as local companies and the
Development of local and regional markets, we want to improve the
Facilitating environment through the means of development cooperation. To
include better infrastructure, the creation and strengthening of the legal framework, the fight against corruption, education and training.

24

II. Opportunities so that everyone can grow beyond
We want to create the conditions that each person develop freely in our country,
Overcome obstacles and be happy on his own terms. We Liberals
want opportunities regardless of their origin.
One of the main conditions for such a self-determined life remains the possible
early and lifelong access to education and training for each individual. Our claim
it is therefore, that education as a civil right regardless of the background every person open
stands. It also includes a comprehensive personality development, people empowerment and
Motivation to act independently in their own life plan and the Company
are. Therefore we guarantee to anyone who seeks education, freedom of choice among a variety of offerings to fully develop their own creativity in a fair quality competition.
We want to empower all people to lead a life of dignity. Good education and training is
the precondition for the rise. But who wants to ascend must first enter also
be able. That is why we want to keep wage costs low, open the labor market and further
with the liberal civil money reward effort and reduce bureaucracy.
We want to create opportunities that go each his way into a republic of free citizens
and limitations can be overcome. Therefore, we stand in solidarity in our society for those
Side who are ready and in need, and to make an effort themselves. For these people we want
toughen up our social security systems and continue forward mooring - not to need to
Manage or alimony a personal situation, but that everyone has a fair chance
to be self-determined act.

Seize opportunities - of lifelong education
Prerequisite for the ascent promise our society can become a reality with its social market economy for everyone in our country, is mainly a good education policy. Thus every person can develop his talents and ideas - to his advantage and to the benefit
all.
25

We have therefore increased in recent years, among other things, expenditure on education and research by almost EUR 14 billion, provided for additional student places, introduced the Germany Scholarship, improve the promotion of vocational training and student loans and the Meister-BAföG. With the educational package we provide for 2.5 million children in our country
new access to educational and cultural offerings. We caught up with the continuation of the program
"Truants - the Second Chance" for made strongly that young people a re-entry
succeed in education and introduced the program "Education Chains", the young people in the transition
supported by school education and work.
Our educational policy stance is also influenced by the pedagogical insight that
autonomous and independent people educated in an environment, and inform
can be formed, which acts independently and ownership exemplifies.
Education for Sustainable Development has developed in recent years become an important and indispensable basic element of education policy. With the orientation of education on the principles
sustainable development are new paths to the learners for life and
Prepare economies in the 21st century. Liberal education policy wants this reorientation
support in order to secure the future of our education policy and expand.
Liberal education policy so lays the foundation that in future more people more opportunities
will have. She is the best armor for a life in freedom and responsibility. This way
we will go on.
For that we enter. For this we to occur.
We want that every education as a civil right regardless of social background
People open. Therefore, investments in education have priority for us. We want
expand the infrastructure and promote individual efforts such as private education savings, vocational training and lifelong learning.
We Liberals are committed to educational federalism, because it allows for freedom, diversity
and performance competition. Decisions on the best solutions can best
be taken locally. At the same time we advocate for more comparability between
the provinces of. This ensures a common level of performance and facilitates
Mobility of students and teachers. We therefore want a new educational constitution,
which builds on the principle of subsidiarity, common standards stipulating binding,
Responsibilities for financial burdens of policy decisions determines (concomitant financing), regulatory burden learners, teachers and parents strengthens.
We want the self-governing and autonomous school because decisions
can be best taken on the spot, so that freedom can unfold, receive diversity remains and performance competition can arise. The autonomy of educational institutions is at the heart of liberal education policy. Many decisions can be more effective and better taken by the individual institution. For the educational institutions should have its own budget and even get more educational freedom. Only in this way they can for their specific challenges
independently make priorities and profile developments and thus a fair
Provide competition with independent schools.
We want to promote quality competition between all suppliers to improve the education system for all students and trainees. Enshrined in our constitutional law on establishment and operation of independent schools we want to enforce. Therefore, we are committed to their proper funding and for26

rather the removal of unjustified barriers to the establishment of independent schools
Sponsorship and Article 7 para. 5 of the Basic Law.
Excellent education and training can only succeed thanks to outstanding teachers.
We therefore want the Excellence Initiative in the field of teacher training with emphasis
forge ahead and thus support the progressive concepts in the qualification of our educational elite.
Day-care centers are places caring care and early childhood education.
There are the basics for future education and thus the foundations for
put the future of our children. The focus must be in the next few years to improve the quality of childcare facilities, the expansion of high-quality
Day-care centers and the offer of his minders. The early childhood, pre-school education should be designed so that the children mainly through the mediation
linguistic competences are prepared for school. We want the training and the
Improve training of educators and pedagogical university degree
or an equivalent qualification to the requirement for the management of a facility
do.
Movement and learning complement each other and have a high interaction. It has been proven that exercise increases the efficiency and mental receptiveness
and as an engine for child development and lifelong learning acts. Therefore, it is
important already in pre-school education, in nurseries and daycare use targeted promotion of physical activity at school and sufficient, qualified
Sports, also in collaboration with associations to offer.
Study Qualifying statements that are acquired via the vocational education system,
are evidence of the permeability of our system. We want to strengthen the successful dual vocational training system. We need all the talents, because they enrich society and also counteract the demographically induced shortage of skilled workers.
We are fighting against the tightening of restrictions on access. For many professional fields
takes a more academic than an additional differentiation but not as strict entry requirement into consideration. The diversity of educational pathways is our strength.
The transition from general education to the working world is appropriate to promote and develop.
We Liberals are committed to creating a socio-political climate, no longer a taboo in the illiteracy and all socio-political forces be sensitized.
To increase the educational opportunities for 7.5 million functional illiterates, we want the National Strategy for literacy and basic education to a national
Develop Literacy Decade, build an Alpha Foundation and possible
expand coverage and demand-driven courses.
Inclusion means for us to understand each person with and without disabilities as an equal member in the middle of our society. A more natural interaction between people with and without handicap ideally starts in childhood. The
In many places already gelingende inclusion in early childhood, we therefore want to expand and continue alike in everyday school life. On the challenges associated teachers, parents and children are pedagogically well prepared as well as schools and school boards are equipped accordingly. Through a high degree of organizational, educational and financial freedom we want schools and school associations
allow to adapt to the funding needs of the students entrusted to them. in the
Heart of our idea of ​​inclusion is the individual student. The best
Promotion can take place depending on the circumstances, both in the regular school system and in a special school. An ideology which generally rejects special schools and therefore abschaf27

fen wants, we reject. Before the problems in some schools by inclusion arise, for example education students more difficult, we do not close our eyes. The child
must be at the center, with and without disabilities. We expressly
for individual and performance-based support to all children in a differentiated
School system, are among the special schools in the future. The inclusion is also
drive at vocational schools further and to dovetail with the school social work.
The formation of the people does not end with a school or academic degree. People learn a lifetime. Training opens up lifelong development opportunities and allows career advancement. We therefore want to support individual efforts to education at any age, for example, through private education savings, education vouchers and extended by us funding opportunities for workers through the Federal Employment Agency.
We want a second chance for those who are our education system not finish
have left. In particular, young people, we want to facilitate part-time catching up on their work and qualifications. People without vocational training
or with broken educational biographies need a second chance at education and
Training. The supply of educational programs and activities for these people is
coordinate by an independent body.
Investments in education and training must be a priority on the primary labor market
impact, because this ensures real employment and bring sustainable value.
We want to give people prospects who need a second chance. This concerns
not only students who have left school with no qualifications, but also those
People who had to take a vocational training which did not comply with their wishes and talents, or that is no longer in demand on the labor market. Through individual deals and the possibility of catching up of a recognized vocational qualification, we want to qualify these people targeted for the job market. Is For
a far-reaching integration in companies already during the qualification necessary. We secure the demand for skilled workers and give people a genuine second chance in the labor market.
Excellent teaching and research needs freedom. Therefore, we stand for the universities autonomy and independence. So we create flexibility and allow the
Profile of the universities. We want transnational reorganize the basic funding of higher education in the future and on the principle of "money follows students" (GEFOS) switch. For every student who opts for a university, receives
the college a payment from a fund made up of contributions from all countries
financed by the Königstein. The basis for calculating the payments to
the universities are phrases that the different costs for different Offered
Disciplines and types of institutions into account. Countries have the opportunity to increase this base funding. Thus, the federal competition remains intact.
At the same time nationally comparable competitive conditions and incentives
created an attractive Programmes.
The quality of teaching at our universities and colleges we want to promote. The training of graduates for us liberals of central importance for the
Future of our country. For that we are the competition "Excellent Teaching"
continue. We also want to support countries through the continuation of the Higher Education Pact.
We support an unbureaucratic cooperation of universities and non-university research institutions. In addition, the federal government is on the temporary Projektförde-

28

tion must support science and research and thus also in the field of
Hochschulförderung guarantee a certain predictability.
We want to develop the Excellence Initiative. The promotion of graduate schools
and the cluster competition have given an important impetus for the competitiveness of the universities, which should be continued. At the same time the Excellence Initiative promotes the ability to control the universities and thus contributes significantly to institutional development of the strategy and management expertise in. Colleges
and private universities should also be able to participate in the competition.
We want to expand the Germany Scholarship, open for doctoral students and
increase the number of scholarships significantly. The universities are not quotas
be restricted In awarding scholarships, but these to such an extent
may award, in which they generate private grants. At the same time we want
the amount of state grants account of inflation, less bureaucratic student loans, make parents and students with disabilities regardless of the
Normal period decouple.
For more internationality in education, we want to strengthen the increased use of foreign languages ​​in the context of courses at universities and among other things,
attract more international students, lecturers and researchers and has often
untapped potential of multilingualism of people with migration background develop.
Countries should have the possibility to allow downstream tuition. The
Configuration is up to the universities. These tuition fees should at the full amount
remain the state colleges and used for the improvement of teaching
become.
We advocate a more flexible personnel structures at universities and
nationwide Science collective agreement a, which allows professionals to engage in research and teaching their tasks properly and to create more attractive conditions for the central block and the top scientific talent.
Institutions of higher education must be as equal partners in the competition
be established for the best minds. We strive to institutions of higher education
to allow fair competition through facilitating market entry,
so that they can develop into an important part of the German higher education system. The GEFOS model should also be opened for private colleges.
Lifelong learning is also one of the objectives of the Bologna Process. We want this
Track destination by the supply of further forming study programs and part-time and part-time degree programs is encouraged. So we want for every stage of life
provide academic training opportunities.
As convinced democrats, we are committed to ensure that all groups involved in status
University committees participate and can defend their interests. Since higher education policy decisions are taken at various political levels, set
we also for a legitimate student representative on these political levels in order to facilitate advocacy.
In order to strengthen the European Higher Education Area, we are committed to uniform European Semester early times, facilitate an exchange semester. Furthermore, we want (less than three months) to set up scholarships for short stays abroad and
more international double degrees through better cooperation with foreign
Encourage universities.

29

Ticket to the world - opportunities in the labor market
Labor market policy is an opportunity policy which allows more people to start work - and
thus opportunities for your own life creates. Unemployment is falling, youth unemployment is
as low as in hardly any other European country. Since the fall of 2009 are in Germany 1.6
Million social insurance jobs were created. On average every 80 seconds
found in Germany a man new work. This shows that Germany allows more people to enter the promotion.
This is a success of the people who have created in Germany by their industry growth and new jobs. And it is a success of liberal labor policy. We have state
Fighting interventions in the social market economy and kept the labor market flexible and open.
This facilitates entry into work for many people, for example by increasing the income limit for mini-jobs to 450 euros, and simplified recognition of foreign educational qualifications. We have more flexible labor market instruments and made clearer. The
Job Center and work local agencies have more decision-making powers in the promotion
get; the results are displayed transparently. Moreover, we have the non-wage costs decreased - most recently by the lowering of pension contributions to 18.9 percent.
We have prevented the reforms of Agenda were turned back in 2010 - and enforced with immense effort further changes to allow more people the chance to
Get entry into work. This way we will continue to pursue.
For that we enter. For this we to occur.
We want to continue to stabilize the wage costs at well below 40 percent and
Surpluses in the social return in an appropriate manner to the contributors. Also therefore come for us a reconstruction of contributory social security systems
a political redistribution mechanism, such as the unit's pension or the citizens' insurance, which is a civil penalty insurance, out of the question.
Our labor market model is successful because it is based on collective bargaining and collective flexible partnerships of employers' organizations and trade unions. We are committed
to collective bargaining. Packages wage determination by the policy is also differentiated labor market situation and the different cost of living in Germany
not fair. We therefore reject a general, nationwide minimum wage strictly
from. He politicized wage setting and prevents people, especially younger
and those who can join with low qualifications, the labor market. It also promotes workarounds like undeclared work. The minimum wage is thus a
sociopolitical Boomerang: The group of workers who are unified by a
Minimum wage is to be protected, at the end without a job and with poorer
Entry opportunities there.
Who exerts himself to be remunerated fairly according to its performance, especially
at the lower end of the wage scale. There are already in Germany to Tarifvertragsgesetz, Workers Act and minimum working conditions law the possibility of declaring collective agreements generally binding in individual sectors or
Set minimum wage. Therefore we have in this legislature for more than
two million employees negotiated by unions and collective agreements newly declared generally binding and thus set a minimum wage in the relevant sector.
We want to go further in terms of the social market economy and create the opportunity for further wage limits this way - in accordance with the collective bargaining. Us
30

this will revise the existing rules for minimum wages and better
match up. Starting point are the wages, which are negotiated by unions and employers in collective agreements. That is the core of the successful German collective bargaining. Should also in the future the amount of wage limits for industry
Industry are set - a decentralized and differentiated. So we want the role
of trade unions and employers continue to strengthen.
We therefore want in particular AEntG for all industries
Creating opportunity, at the joint request of the social partners and with the consent of the
To let explain the wage floor of a representative collective agreement generally binding tariff committee. We also intend for industries where a representative
Agreement does not exist, make the subsidiary method by the minimum working conditions law workable. The vague legal concept of social dislocations can be eliminated. The main committee, we want to strengthen and avoid political interference. As in universally applicable collective agreements are regional differences into consideration and provide meaningful exceptions, such as for apprentices. The after-effect of collective agreements should be limited in time. To prevent the formation of monopolies or cartels indirectly via the collective bargaining law, should in the future, the Federal Cartel Office in each method to generally binding declarations
Leave after the Posted Workers Act and proceedings under the minimum working conditions law an opinion which takes into account particularly true if
is engaged by a to be explained generally binding collective agreement in favor of a market-dominating competition company, as an example
Deutsche Post AG has been the case.
We think it is right that it is checked comprehensively ex officio when employed recipients of unemployment benefit II if an immoral payment could be.
Turns out, that is why too much unemployment benefit II has been paid to this by
the job centers to employers to be recovered consistently and fairly effective. Not only the social insurance, but also the criminal aspects have to be considered by the job centers here.
Our response to the insufficient incomes of many low-skilled workers is also an increased commitment to further qualifications. The
Funding opportunities in vocational training, we have already improved so
social mobility in the labor market successfully and also the income situation of many people improved in the long term. We are committed in particular to promoting sound and market-oriented education and training of low-skilled workers
and therefore want to support individual efforts to education at any age,
for example, through private education savings and the enhanced funding opportunities
Federal Employment Agency for employees - within the meaning of the principle encourage and challenge.
At the same time we must ensure that everyone has the prospect of being able to get along by his own efforts without benefit. A consideration of hourly wages is not enough here, because the majority of people who apply in addition to their income from work unemployment benefit II, only part-time working or has a larger family
supply. The Liberal citizens money is and will remain for the right idea. It motivates the
People, for example, the extension of working hours: Self Income generated is always noticeably larger total disposable income. This is followed by the additional earnings opportunities of unemployment benefit II must orient.
After the abandonment of the principle of collective unity by the Federal Labour Court is
no discernible increase in the number of strikes in Germany occurred. The danger
an abuse of the right to strike by trade unions, by micro changes
31

be adequately met at the level of industrial action law, a statutory
Revision of the bargaining unit is not required.
We want more autonomy in Germany. Germany has in the international
Compared a below-average proportion of self-employment and to entrepreneurs.
We want to change, because in addition to the undoubted economic benefits is the
Founding and Founder friendliness of a society is an important expression of their
Liberality. Therefore, we will try out an evaluation of the changes in labor market policy instrument of the foundation grant, whether such a low-threshold funding from contributions or tax revenues to can make a greater contribution again. May happen, for example, the examination of additional tax
Incentive schemes for donors of venture capital and improve the image of start-ups and self-employment for example through inclusion in school curricula.
To facilitate the restructuring of companies and thus to preserve jobs,
should the application of § 613a BGB in case of imminent insolvency, and in the
Bankruptcy of a company are checked.
Flexible forms of employment strengthen incentives for businesses, new jobs to
create, provide entry opportunities for job-seekers and have significantly helped to reduce unemployment. Both time work, as well as fixed-term employment
do not alter the normal compulsory social insurance. Similarly applies the
Protection in case of illness, or pregnancy termination. We want these instruments
therefore get and where it makes sense to develop. The limit for mini-jobs -
currently 450 euros - will soon again regularly in accordance with the wage development
be adjusted to give even mini-jobbers the opportunity to receive salary increases.
Temporary agency work is a buying opportunity in the labor market, especially for the low-skilled.
Around two-thirds of all employees in temporary employment were previously unemployed. It
are now a mandatory minimum wage based on collective agreements. Revolving door models like Schlecker were excluded by law and the social partners
were taken by the federal government the responsibility to solve by industry aggregates called Equal-pay issues. So now closes on the timeline the tariff gap between workers in temporary work and the workforce of
Entleihbetriebe. All this shows that through targeted legislation we have abuse in the
Time work prevented without losing the industry as a job creator. This path is to be
continue.
The view of the law is to reveal the legal position. It is overdue to bring the decision of the Federal Labour Court to statutory notice periods in the Federal Law Gazette. When calculating the statutory period of notice, the European Court has found an illegal age discrimination. The new regulation
may not aggravate the protection against dismissal must be designed and employment-friendly.
Very few workers are regularly employed in temporary jobs. For many a fixed-term contract is the first step in work and continuous employment with the same employer. That is why we want to - in response to a ruling by the

The new regulation
may not aggravate the protection against dismissal must be designed and employment-friendly.
Very few workers are regularly employed in temporary jobs. For many a fixed-term contract is the first step in work and continuous employment with the same employer. That is why we want to - in response to a ruling by the
Federal Labour Court - the Vorbeschäftigungsverbot in temporary employment
Loosen and at the same time limitations effectively prevent chain by a one-year waiting period.
We intend to expand the dual training system. This combination of professional
Practical training and education is an essential foundation for the economic
32

Success and for the social balance in Germany. It is a major export for the European region and beyond. The dual training system with vocational schools
and business schools should independently and equal footing with higher education.
Even in sports the dual career has proved. It offers the top athletes already
while their athletes career prospects for the period thereafter. Existing models -
such as the sports promotion units of the Bundeswehr, Federal Police and Customs - should
therefore continued and open as much as possible even for Paralympic athletes
become. Incentives for reconciling school, university or vocational and professional sports
should be strengthened.
We want an immigration law that gives professionals a chance in the labor market.
Germany must be open to talent from around the world, establish a culture of welcome
and to recruit bright minds concrete and active. Seek liberalization begun in the immigration of skilled workers and the introduction to a modern immigration law
we continue.
The existing potential of skilled workers in Germany should be better used
to secure individual opportunities and to promote growth. Companies engaged in their
Put corporate governance on active strategies of diversity (diversity management), are
economically successful. To support these endeavors, is part of our
Growth strategy for Germany.
We want to introduce the liberal "aging management" as an organizational form of a life-phase-oriented and preventive personnel policy in companies and public administration. Are based on their own areas of responsibility for each employee
career long learning, family-oriented working hours, age-appropriate
Jobs and varied activities the best tools for promoting
of learning ability and willingness to perform at any age. Ultimately make the best
Guarantee of job satisfaction. The challenges of demographic change
can overcome only joint responsibility of workers and employers
become.

Create opportunities rather than deficiency manage - social security for all
Chances we create, by making social protection systems more reliably and the actual
Customize needs of the people. We want to keep costs under control and thus create the conditions that in the future each can be helped who needs this help.
Prior to our entry into the federal government's social policy in Germany has only the lack
managed: at the Federal Employment Agency gaped a hole of 13.8 billion euros - and by 2013,
expected to a deficit of 55 billion. Through growth and reforms we have this trend
reversed in recent years. In the labor market policy, we do not put on too thinly, but on targeted promotion of re-entry into the labor market and effective
Monitor the effectiveness.
We have consistently blocked all attempts to make the social systems into a political redistribution instrument. In addition, we have strengthened the private retirement and want
continue along this path. Riester products have become more transparent and more attractive thanks to the Liberals. In the basic provision in old age, we have raised the funding ceiling. We have

33

strengthen the protection of private occupational disability and for significant concessions in the savings with homeownership worried ("Eigenheimrentengesetz").
The success of our policy: surpluses in the billions in the pension fund and real budgetary autonomy for the Federal Employment Agency - and thus declining contributions and safe, high quality
Social services for the people in our country. We relieve the people, give them
Security and help those who make an effort to all restrictions and impediments
to unfold despite itself. To maintain this, we want our social security systems
toughen up further and make future-proof.
For that we enter. For this we to occur.
Anyone who needs the assistance through the tax-financed social security system, this is quick and
unbureaucratic obtained. We rely on the introduction of liberal citizen's income,
because it rewards individual efforts and regulatory burden. With the Liberals citizens money, we want to re-arrange the support for the needy and unemployed. To this end,
be the unemployment benefit II including benefits for housing and heating,
Social Money, the basic security in old age and disability, social assistance (without
Social assistance are summarized in special circumstances), the children's allowance and housing allowance. Who exerts himself and takes on a job that is to the citizen's income model more
keep on his income.
We want to implement the citizens' money gradually and continue to mainly begun in recent years by lump sum benefits consistently. The optional flat rate of the cost of accommodation, we want to make the unemployment benefit II, in regional an appropriate level, the rule. So not every lease by the Office
be submitted, and any savings from lower rent or heating costs
come partially credited to the beneficiary. Further mergers of local authorities according to the principle "all from one source" must be examined. We also want to enable the job centers as a further step to convert to a limited extent passive benefits for long-term unemployed in active labor market measures.
Today there is help and support for long-term unemployed only from one source.
Either the municipality takes over the tasks themselves or they divided the tasks together with the Federal Employment Agency. In order to compare the performance of municipalities and joint facilities, we need transparency and clear standards. The local authorities should be free to decide whether they organize the placement itself.
The Federal Employment Agency is to continuously improve their performance: Individual
Case management with well trained intermediaries and a reasonable caseload
to pave the way into the labor market even more people.
Allowances and crediting rates for unemployment benefit II are designed so future
be that full timely activities are particularly attractive. Because arrive income areas in those Arbeitszeitund, is demonstrably the better chance to have need once and for all behind. To be fair, the fact remains that in case of rejection
a reasonable job offer, the unemployment benefit II can be shortened.
We advocate for more self-determination in the pension without a rigid age limits. The
People are aged 60 - at actuarially correct feed and haircuts - can choose the time of their retirement dates, unless their claims from private, public and occupational pension above the basic security level. At the same time we want to remove barriers to employment for the elderly and Zuver34

Service limits completely cancel next to the pension. The insured may from so
age 60 reduce their working hours and loss of earnings by a reference
Compensate for partial pension or - if they wish - to work longer.
The integration allowance is replaced by a Federal Power Act. In it we want
Summarize benefits for people with disabilities and designing personal. The personal budget is to be expanded, and in particular simplified by lump sum. Achievements which compensate for the disadvantages of disability
(Change Compensation) shall be granted irrespective of income. Services for livelihood are on the other hand, as with any other recipients also, according to
Neediness paid.
The insured person must be able to rely in planning their lives to the fact that
the amount of pension to the contributions paid oriented. That is why we are Liberals
for a consistently contributory pension. Family or sociopolitical power extensions must not be funded through contribution funds.
We want to keep the pension system in the public pension system fit for the future and one to a greater degree by private and company pension plans, with
Juxtaposition of the statutory pension insurance, occupational pensions and private pensions to supplement. We need a mix of PAYG and funded
Pension to compensate for different risks and guarantees. We reject, therefore,
overlooking the intergenerational equity a withdrawal from the recent pension reforms aimed at lowering the statutory pensions level, a stabilization of
Contributions and expanding private provision were aligned. A national insurance,
for example by including the professional pensions suppliers, we reject
from.
We want to make private provision for everyone, even for the low paid, attractive. Therefore
allowed income from private and occupational provision only partially credited to the basic pension. This is an effective contribution to combating the risk of future pensioner poverty at an early stage. We also want to self the way
Open to Riester.
Introduced by red-green 2004 double burden of occupational pensions
by social security, we want to abolish again.
In the discussion about the introduction of a compulsory pension insurance for self-employed
we are in favor in principle against an Entrepreneurship and Innovation enemy forced solution. This threatened the existence of the self-employed and the creation of jobs: If you already take precautions now, is his pension may have to restructure with massive losses - and those who, due to a lack of profits
Retirement can not afford to be in the bankruptcy and in the dependency
driven by government transfer systems.
Under current law, nor would indefinitely in East and West
different pension systems exist. The unification of pension legislation in East
and West is a matter of fairness for us.
We want to put the payment of social security contributions back to the 15th day of the following month. The created by the current regime in companies bureaucratic costs would be disproportionate to the benefits of the public sector.
We want to make future social elections democratic, more transparent and more effective.
We want to abolish unit lists and allow real choice. The possibility of online participation and to provide a simple and transparent way
the lists to ensure.

35Seizing opportunities - living together healthy
We want freedom of choice and design options go hand in hand with the need for solidarity. If both are cleverly connected, we together make up the expense of
yesterday Tomorrow's opportunities.
By 2009, the shortage has been managed in the social systems. In the statutory health insurance alone at that time lacked billion. We have achieved the turnaround and the social security funds again
placed on solid legs. We have in the health sector for more competition between
Health insurance companies and provided in the pharmaceutical market. We also save alone through lower cost of drugs currently up to two billion euros. This enabled us to achieve:
Surplus of insurance companies and the first steps towards a solidly financed long-term care with an introduction to the funding.
In order to make health care in rural areas fit for the future, we have incentives for
Doctors set. With the reform of the Transplantation Act, we have improved the processes in hospitals in organ donation and organ living donors better protected. With the
Promotion of private long-term care and the introduction of services for people with dementia and their
Members, we have achieved a lot for the people. Finally, it is us with the abolition of
Praxisgebühr again succeeded in over-bureaucratization and confront the patient
relieve.
We are the way of the past four years in a liberal and diverse health care system
continue and at the same time provide enough security so that affected people at a
Disease does not fall into a financial emergency. For this we want to strengthen our health and care system and ensure that the health and nursing care remains affordable in the future.
For that we enter. For this we to occur.
We stand for a liberal health system that combines solidarity and individual responsibility. We are opposed to a centrally directed state medicine, which only leads to paternalism, lack management and waiting lists and patients to petitioners
makes. Rather, the benefit of the patient at the center of health care should be.
Freedom of choice for citizens remains the maxim liberal health policy. Therefore put
We continue for the free choice of doctor, therapy for freedom, for the freedom of choice in the
Health insurance, a case of insurance coverage and hospital. This includes a
strong private health insurance. This includes the field of public health insurance for the abolition of the budget medicine and the introduction of cost reimbursement principle. But to each patient will receive an invoice in the cost of services received are shown. One unit checkout with unit power for unit patients we issue a denial.
For a strong dual health insurance system, it is also important to make private health insurance fit for the future. These include transparency in
the basic rates and concepts both for post development as well as on the portability of
Age provisions.
We want to strengthen the contribution of health insurance on and autonomy attribute the redistribution by the health fund. The entry into the decoupling of health insurance contributions from the wages and salaries was right. The necessary social compensation for those who can not pay their contributions, should continue to
36

And thus be financed by all taxpayers tax revenue according to their performance.
A modern health care does not understand the parties as a single fighter.
Rather, cooperation, collaboration and distribution of tasks for a good supply of the patient play a major role. We are committed to ensuring that the tasks between the parties involved are clearly defined and distributed and want to enhance medical and paramedical professions and make them more attractive.
The freelancer is a guarantee for an efficient health care system. We will
therefore hold on to the freelancing of Healers. In addition, we recognize the
outpatient care, the role of health care models with salaried physicians at.
We want to ensure the preservation of a community-based network of pharmacies. For a qualified
Drug counseling need pharmacies continue to performance-based pay,
attractive working conditions and a further reduction of bureaucratic regulations.
Bureaucracy must be reduced in health at all levels, for example, excessive documentation requirements for the service providers in public
Bodies and the National Health Insurance.
The training and continuing education of nurses is crucial for determining whether it is possible to ensure the quality of care permanently at a high level.
In addition, an attractive training with clearly defined financing methods contributes decisively to improve the image and acceptance of the nursing professions.
We oppose efforts that in future only high school graduates must make a nursing education. Instead, we want to improve the recognition and development opportunities of the nursing professions. Nurses are to evolve and
then can take on additional tasks. The challenges of care have now arrived at the hospital and the medical issues in the nursing home. Us
contact us therefore for a merger of the three previously separate training
for Kinderkranken-, health and Caregiver to a generalist nursing education
with a further development perspective.
In the care people need alternatives alongside traditional
inpatient and outpatient care, as for example by promoting
Living groups were created. Want for people with dementia and their families
We provide support in good quality. To cater to their special problems
are also the criteria for the care of physical chores to change towards a classification based on the remaining autonomy.
A policy of budgeting will result in demographic change to a shortage of doctors, nurses and other service offerings. In order to continue a good
To ensure care in case of illness or care, we need performance-related compensation and good working conditions. These include the compatibility of family
and professional as well as an efficient workflow. This includes the reduction of bureaucratic regulation, the qualification of as many people, the targeted recovery
of returnees in the health professions and the controlled immigration of people from other countries who want to work in the health sector in Germany.
In the maintenance of additional reduction of bureaucracy and documentation requirements is essential for as much time as possible is left for the actual care. Therefore, we want
stronger and to the control of quality of results instead of the target of structures
Processes set.
Demographic change is the question of funding between the generations
new. Therefore, we need to strengthen the funding. In the private Pflege37

Pension funding, we have achieved an important first step. Want this path
we continue.
Especially against the backdrop of an aging population, it is important to us that quality medical care in Germany is close to home for all available at low cost in the future and that people lead an independent life in old age
be able. We encourage the wider use of telemedicine and the breakdown of legal liability requirements for the deployment of telemedicine applications. The use
technical assistance systems allow elderly and the sick a better life.
Good prevention improves quality of life, prevents disease or delay its commitment, at least out. That is why we want to strengthen prevention further, particularly in the
Infectious diseases (such as HIV), and mental illness
Malnutrition. To this end, each institution must play its part in clear financial and job responsibility. Here municipalities, health insurance companies, healthcare professionals, employers are required under the occupational health care and the Federal Centre for Health Education. Just as those who can influence a healthy lifestyle in kindergartens, schools and clubs. One
special role to play to the sport, which makes a significant contribution to health care cost containment.
Despite prevention efforts People suffer for example as a result of sickness or accident lasting restrictions on the participation in professional and social life. This risk increases with age. A large part of
affected people can be helped through rehabilitation back to a largely independent life. Through adequate funding and effective cooperation of the measures support we want to make sure that also in the demographic changes, the principle 'rehabilitation before pension "can be met. Also in the
Retirement age should each be supported if necessary, as long as possible to live independently.
This is not only the individual, but also helps the society, the more and more on
the active participation of older people depends. Quality assured Rehabilitation
leads to considerable savings in disability pensions and care services.
Our health care system is not yet sufficiently adjusted despite considerable progress in many areas to the ever longer life of the people. It is necessary, for example, geriatric competence in all health professions, in particular competence
in dealing with dementia. The geriatric medicine we want more medical in focus
Research questions. At the same time we want a comprehensive prevention strategy,
Support people to be as healthy as possible old.
For individual freedom include the right to self-determination over their own bodies. Self-determination is going on welfare considerations by others. It is the right of every individual, on their own responsibility to decide on medical treatments and to make appropriate dispositions in advance. Medical treatments against the declared will of the person concerned leaning liberals strictly. We want to enable all people a decent life until recently. The new regulation has the advance directive
proved its worth. The framework for the provision of palliative care and hospice services we want to continue to improve.

38

III. Diversity so that everyone has a choice
We Liberals want a free, a diverse society. People should decide for themselves,
how they want to live. Politics must not prescribe a certain way of life people. We want
Instead, continue to strengthen freedom and diversity in Germany. For this purpose, we want new forms of
Allow solidarity, division of labor and social participation. Because globalization and
the increasingly close ties between the world leading to ever more rapid change. There is hardly any
Decision today, we can be confident that they tomorrow to the desired
Results. A diverse and open society, however, can correct errors quickly
and try new things. Therefore, diversity and openness to guarantee sustainability.
We are strengthening families and communities of responsibility. For a republic of free citizens lives
the fact that people take responsibility. We want freedom of choice of lifestyles.
Allowing diversity in our society and to live also means to tolerate differences and to accept, but to recognize especially their value. Therefore, we want to real opportunities
greater participation for all in our society.
This is especially true under the conditions of demographic change. Germany is
a country of long life, and thereby also more diverse and experienced. These challenges
we want to make it an opportunity for our country.
A diverse society can not exist without equality before the law. Mean equal duties
also equal rights. To have equal rights does not mean for Liberals but, Miscellaneous equal
to make. We are committed to diversity.

Strengthen responsibility - in families and communities of responsibility
Love, security and recognition provide a strong foundation for the development of a good
individual personality. Children deserve our special protection. Every child has the right
it, to unfold to become a responsible personality. Opportunities, regardless of the
Origin already begin in infancy. In the responsibility for their children, we see liberals
first the parents and then the state and society.
39

Family no longer means here today only the cohabitation of couples with birth parents
their children. In addition, now live for example, single-parent families, blended families or
same-sex couples with children in high sense of responsibility as a family. The decision on the concrete form of one's own community is a private matter. For us liberals all communities are equally valuable, in which people take responsibility for each other: parents fit for their children, children for their parents, spouses and partners. But people in other freely chosen responsibility Communities.
We want to strengthen self-determination for life models and encourage responsible.
Therefore, we have in recent years families with children through a higher child benefit and
higher allowances relieved. We have contributed to the fact that today a total of 250,000
Children less living in poverty. We have strengthened the rights of the child through the full implementation of UNKinderrechtskonvention. We have introduced the first Federal Child Protection Act and
a milestone in child protection in Germany set. Children noise was a plea
abolished. We have by promoting the expansion of federal child care with 780,000
new places continued. The educational package for children in need was also realized as the legal entitlement to the care of children under three years, the childcare allowance when BAföG and simplified inclusion of self-employed in the parental allowance. Us
have the family care leave and decided to allow more flexible part-time solutions for workers. We have launched a scheme for confidential birth on the way in the Bundestag. Us
have the rights biological fathers strengthened and joint custody in the interest of the child
expanded. For same-sex partners, we have in many areas of life
Equality with spouses realized: in the civil service law in the inheritance and property transfer tax, the BAföG and capital accumulation benefits.
Freedom and responsibility are inseparable. We will only get better
and live better when we remember what has made us strong: people who
effort - out of passion, out of love for others, of responsibility. We believe in this
People. She is to further strengthen our goal.
For that we enter. For this we to occur.
We are driving the expansion of high-quality care facilities for children under three years ahead further. For that we want to improve the caseload and the training of educators on. Countries should take their responsibility here. Company kindergartens and private institutions, we want the public, non-profit
and church organizations the same questions and bureaucratic hurdles for new facilities
lower. We also want to provide childminders better.
We want to facilitate the work-life balance. Who for other people
Takes responsibility, should not have to do that at the expense of their own opportunities. Therefore, we want the use of flexible working hours, home-based opportunities,
Further facilitate exemption years and alternating between full and part time in companies.
We want the use of parental benefit by better part-time options
more flexible and strengthen the partner months. Furthermore, we strive to provide flexible recognition of independence, for single parents and for part-time work during the
Parents time. For self we want to create fair conditions for parental allowance. That
Income, the self-employed have worked before her maternity leave, but you only
is paid during parental leave, should not be counted against the parental allowance and
thus lead to a reduction of the parental allowance.
40

We want on the basis of carried out in recent years, the evaluation
rearrange family benefits, to cut red tape and the efficiency of
used to raise funds. The recently introduced childcare allowance also needs to be reviewed in terms of its effects. If it does not reach the target, to allow more freedom of choice between private and public child care, we want to
it abolished again. For all services we focus mainly on child welfare.
We want the bundling of all child-related benefits with a children's menu in a
Pilot test. This electronic card is a non-bureaucratic and non-discriminatory opportunity to send children directly conveying capacities.
The advance on maintenance payments must be made to bridge power again. The
Duration of its covering should be shortened and be extended in return the reference to the 18th birthday of the child.
All actors of child protection must work hand in hand to prevent abuse and
Prevent maltreatment effectively and intervene specifically in suspected cases. The
significant strengthening of prevention and intervention helps, neglect and abuse
To prevent children and the destruction of families in the future better. This approach applies nationwide to strengthen. "No perpetrators are" For example, through joint prevention networks like.
Children and young people we want to protect their diverse habitats effectively against sexual abuse and improving assistance to victims. An independent working-up of abuse happening in the past is a global social challenge that we give a high priority. The social
Awareness raising, which is necessary in order to curb abuse, is still in its infancy. In the federal government, an independent commissioner abuse will be settled in the future. Legal status, tasks, rights and obligations
and the participation of those concerned are regulated by law. In addition, from the
Federal government settled an independent commission for the comprehensive, systematic investigation into the abuse happening in the institutional and family life, provided that the German Bundestag no commission of inquiry set up for working.
For liberals all communities are equally valuable, in which people take responsibility for each other. All couples should be able to enter into marriage. Until then
applies: He who has the same duties, deserves equal rights. Civil unions must be equated with marriage - especially still in the Income Tax Law, in the Riester pension and adoptions.
In a time when the traditional family structures, aged just not always carry,
emphasizes the need for new forms of mutual protection - beyond kinship or love relationships. Therefore, we want in the Civil Code that
Introduce legal institution of responsibility Community with flexible blocks of the assumption of responsibility between two or more persons. To legal clarity
over other obligations to uphold, these people may not be married,
partnered or be in a straight line related. Benefits through the
State tax and social legislation but also in the law of succession are justified only if the
Partner full maintenance and purchase obligations as spouses assume. To prevent misuse, are members of a community of responsibility to no evidentiary privilege and not a family reunification in immigration law.
We want to create more choice in family law. Spouses and registered partners are at marriage optional achievement Community
can choose as further optional matrimonial property regime. This is in most European
41

Countries the statutory matrimonial property regime. This generated goods already during
marriage to the common wealth and not only at a separation in the form of accrued gains compensated.
We want to simplify the way for adoption. For this purpose we want, for example, that
in stepchild adoptions - provided the consensual desire of mother, father and adoptionswilligem stepparent and provided it does not contradict the child's best interests
- Receive their relationship to both biological parents remains. The social reality of a higher life expectancy and a shifted backwards marry phase requires an adoption law, which recognizes the signs of the times. As a rule, is also an age difference of 50 years between the child and
parents do not justify any doubts about the ability of education.
In a reproductive health law, we want to summarize the existing specific provisions and allow the egg donation.
All people are the characters allowed in Germany reproductive medicine offers (for example, artificial insemination) are open, regardless of their marital status legally. In an anonymous sperm donation in the context of reproductive medical treatment should be regulated so that a child can learn his origin as majority indeed, maintenance and inheritance rights, however, are excluded.

Strengthen Civic Engagement
We Liberals are for free, the open civil society. It encourages people in their
free development, their personal pursuit of happiness, and their commitment to their contemporaries.
Even today, in our country millions of people are involved and thereby make our
Society richer and warmer - these people we want to strengthen.
We have raised, inter alia, the training curriculum and volunteering Packages noticeable and
Liability risks for volunteers in clubs clearly limited. We have the youth voluntary services (FSJ and FÖJ) strengthened and created the Federal Voluntary Service - and thus the largest
commitment of political reform in the history of our country implemented. While after 2009
still average 68,000 community service completed their compulsory service, get involved
Today 80,000 people in the voluntary services - unlike the civil service but geschlechterund across generations.
We Liberals understand policy for civic engagement not as piecemeal, but demand
a common thread in the policy framework for reduction commitment. This claim, we have to
a commitment strategy the federal government and the first engagement report made clear.
We are strengthening the voluntary work and individual commitment. The involvement of citizens and
CSOs - from private citizens organized panels on foundations and
Teams to social organizations such as the Non-statutory Welfare - has therefore for us
a special value. The solidary and open civil society is an expression of the freedom of society bound. Their strength is the diversity. It creates new opportunities in life - and
new models for citizens and businesses.
For that we enter. For this we to occur.

42

Million German take on in their community responsibility in personal
Environment, in associations, foundations and more. These people we want to support in their volunteer work, by freeing them from bureaucratic obstacles
and encourage others to follow suit. In tax law are to the packages for
Allowances continuously adapted in terms of price developments and
Additional earnings regulations are changed in state benefits so that do not lead to a reduction in allowances aids.
We want to strengthen the organizations and institutions further, where voluntary
Is engagement possible. Associations, foundations, associations and other civil society
Organizations offer important opportunities for participation, act in shaping our society and assume social responsibility. Allow
people practical experience in a democratic system and are based on their experiences always new impetus for the whole of civil society.
With 27 million members of the association, sports federations are the largest civil rights movement
our country. Sport brings people regardless of gender, age, social status, religious or political views, physical condition, or origin
sexual orientation together. It promotes preventive health care, building
of community spirit and the reduction of prejudice. Sports associations and their volunteer supporters deserve our special support. The maintenance and expansion
of sports facilities are a priority for us.
We Liberals are committed to the promotion of amateur and professional sport. Eligible
However, only a clean sport. Taking performance-enhancing agents endanger the
Ideas of fair play and the inspiring nature of sport. Prevention, self-control
of sport through sport, investments in the latest detection systems and a climate
social courage against all forms of fraud are promising
Elements to combat doping sustainably. We are committed to National Foundation
Anti Doping Agency (NADA) and demanding countries and the private sector to provide increased their
To make share of the endowment. A criminal offense for doping we reject Liberal
from. The sharpest sword in the anti-doping struggle is the competition suspension. Moreover, civil liability issues in the athlete contracts can be regulated.
The economic commercialization and exploitation of sporting events is a prerequisite for self-financing of organized sport. In this context, attention
we in the modernization of copyright on the legitimate property rights
sporting event organizers.
We take violence seriously on the verge of sporting events. Nevertheless, fans may not
are criminalized fixed price. The file "violent offenders sport" we want to critically examine
and, if necessary, abolish again.
In foundation law, we want to make further simplifications to social
To facilitate engagement of individuals and businesses. In addition, we want to allow private donations to the endowment of foundations of the covenant.
The clarification we Liberals in the wake of the suspension of conscription Voluntary Service reform has led to a massive expansion of voluntary services. This commitment by young and old, we want to strengthen, as we break down bureaucratic obstacles and
coordinate national and international volunteer services better. We sit down
for the further development of the European Voluntary Service to a volunteer European year which is open to citizens of all ages. The volunteer services must not be misused as a labor market instrument case, the principle of labor market neutrality is respected.

43

Living diversity - together in an open civil society
We want that everyone can go his own way in Germany without patronized
or to be pushed against his will into a certain direction. Everyone should the
Have opportunities to reach their goals on their own and accomplish their dreams - no matter
by gender, age, sexual orientation and disability.
For liberals, it is normal to be different. Liberal policies protect therefore especially large variety of life forms and lifestyles - and thus a fearless otherness. Us
therefore support the development of "Strategies for Diversity" ("diversity policies") and want
that our Republican institutions are role models and diversity of life.
Part of tolerance for us equality of homosexual unions.
Here we have established various improvements. We have the federal foundation Magnus Hirschfeld enforced in 2011, which counteracts through education and research of discrimination against lesbians and gays. We have developed separate programs for boys and men policy to improve gender equality. We continue
to ensure that the proportion of women in management positions in the industry and the public
Service is enhanced by commitment.
For us Liberals heard religious freedom, also the negative freedom of religion to the inalienable
Principles: We are committed to actively promoting tolerance and respect for religious beliefs or atheistic or agnostic worldview also by other citizens. Us
stand up for the equal treatment of churches, religious and philosophical communities
by the state. Its ideological neutrality should be fundamentally guaranteed. While the former make a valuable contribution to the design of living together in society,
especially in the charitable sector and in the teaching of values, living the latter of ethical
Conditions that it can not itself provide. State and religious communities work
According to the cooperation principle together: church and state, religious communities and philosophical communities are each independently and at the same time in the sense of the common good to each other
based. The decisive factor, however, is that the man and society of the respective
Community respects the values ​​of the Basic Law.
We have launched an independent youth policy on the way. While other youth policy
define priority with do's and don'ts for seemingly immature or disadvantages and difficulties afflicted youth, we have confidence especially in young people and
want to give them more opportunities.





For that we enter. For this we to occur.

44



lead.


bring.














The existing potential of skilled workers in Germany should be better used
to secure individual opportunities and to promote growth.

We liberals stand for an independent youth policy. We rely on a strong youth welfare and a strong youth work, in particular by strong youth associations
young people opened opportunities for participation and promotes their potential and expanding.
We want to develop the opportunities for participation of young people as a central part of democratic culture. We Liberals put us firmly committed to ensuring,
the participation of children and young people through tailored to their needs, age differentiated offerings to participation in political and social life on site
improve. For this we want to push forward the reform begun in the children and youth plan consistently as transparent and participatory funding instrument of the child and youth policy. Children's pages, children's and youth forums, youth councils and parliaments should by the responsible levels with clear standards for these
Be used participatory tools and encouraged.
We advocate for a clear regulation of the Youth noise to planning security for
Bolzplätze and local recreational opportunities for young people to ensure.
45

In order to reduce social discrimination against lesbians and gay men, put
We give priority to education and information rather than on bureaucratic anti-discrimination laws. Therefore, we want the good work of the Federal Foundation Magnus Hirschfeld further
strengthen and increase the endowment. Homosexuals in Germany pursuant to § 175
convicted of the Criminal Code and thus become victims of state discrimination
are, we want to rehabilitate and compensate appropriately.
We will work to ensure that homosexuals are not per se excluded from blood donation.
We will work for more acceptance and self-determination of transsexuals -
especially in the world of work. In a new transgender law, we also want to
reduce the hurdles for civil status change. In the course of the intended benefits
the sickness funds are secured and unified with sexual reassignment.
We want people with disabilities an active participation in social life
enable. This begins with the accessibility of the public space: people with
Disability must be able to use all public buildings, transport and communication facilities independent of foreign aid. Childcare facilities,
Schools and leisure and educational facilities, we want to make inclusive. Accessibility is all. Who admits barriers out of the way, allowing buildings, transport, products are recognizable to all, accessible and thus available for each. That is why we also support the implementation of the UN CRPD. Furthermore,
We advocate for a nationwide accessible Emergency SMS alerts.
Unless at people with disabilities or serious illness, the ability to work uptake is limited, we want the best possible participation in working life
by part-time jobs, vocational support measures and achieve the expansion of inclusive workplaces. In need of help, we rely on the introduction of personal budgets,
so you can decide autonomously and independently about which person
or means to implement the assistance.

Immigration and integration in a diverse, open Germany
For a modern, open Germany must apply: It does not matter where you come from.
It depends on where you want. No matter where a person comes, what background he has he
can enrich our society - in the economy, in culture, sports, public
Life. And he has a right to participate in this society.
In our country millions of fellow human beings live with an immigrant background. Many of them are here
born. The vast majority of them are already in this country at home. They are our fellow citizens,
Friends and neighbors.
We are convinced: Those who wish to participate in this society, who wants to get involved, which should
also can find a home. For this, we can break down barriers in Germany and
Open doors. However, it needs the willingness to participate prerequisite for cooperation in an open civil society. This includes in particular the readiness of the German
To learn language and unreserved acceptance of our free democratic order. The National Action Plan Integration and the instrument of the integration agreement, we show how we intend to continue on this path to coexistence in our society.
At the same time we also show - for example with the creation of criminal offenses to combat forced marriage and genital mutilation - clearly the limits of tolerance.
46

But to provide opportunities for participation also means to make every effort, people
to enable the integration. The ability to integrate still hangs in many cases of
Factors - family, education, social environment - which can only with difficulty influence the individual
and which make it difficult in the worst case access in society. Here we want
still more giving to help themselves, so that individuals can make themselves free from external
Constraints. Also why we have, for example, increases the means for integration courses, the means for
the expansion of child care in the countries further increased and initiatives for linguistic and
training support.
We want for those who wish to enter, open the doors to our society. This applies to all
those who already live in our country. And that goes for those who want to come.
That is why we have facilitated the immigration to Germany and the recognition of foreign
Educational attainment improved so masterminds easily find their way to Germany.
But for these people to come to Germany, these people need us in Germany
especially welcome. They are here with their families find a home and a home
be able. Tolerance, openness, a culture of cooperation - these are for Liberal values ​​per se. In the
modern world, there are also essential location factors, if we in the economy, in
Research, want to stay with creative endeavors at the top.
For that we enter. For this we to occur.
Germany is an immigration country. We are pleased about. In the past, immigrants have helped shape the economic miracle and enriches our society. However, the coexistence in the open society is the effort to
Similarities to tolerance and acceptance by all relevant stakeholders. Is integration
impossible without a common language and the acceptance of the republican values ​​of our Constitution. That is why we want to strengthen integration courses as a central element on and here in particular the early integration of children in the reinforced
Taking views. The integration courses are to be extended to toleration and asylum seekers. They are often years in Germany, and therefore have the possibility
get to learn German, to participate in the working and social life.
We want an immigration law, the professionals a chance in the labor market
are. Germany should be open to talent from around the world, establish a culture of welcome and promote concretely and actively masterminds. The liberalization begun in the
Immigration of skilled workers and the introduction to a modern immigration law
We intend to continue. For this purpose, we strive to further development of the jobseekers visa to
a clear and full points system modeled after Canada and Australia. Along the way we want to reduce the existing salary limits for immigration and further reduce initial language barriers. To this end, should, regardless of the medium to long-term promotion of German as a foreign language, English
be promoted and established as a complementary traffic and working language in areas of public administration, which are relevant for the targeted immigration. The work permit should also be dispensed with legal residence. Similar to the scheme for
Students who come to study in Germany, are also apprentices
Third countries who want to do an apprenticeship in Germany, obtained a residence permit.
Integration requires the openness and willingness to integrate a society. As
Liberals, we promote more openness and tolerance. We want an opportunity for accelerated naturalization after four years and the fundamental approval of dual citizenship. Participation options facilitate integration: therefore set47

We zen us in a lawful minimum stay of five years, for the introduction
a municipal foreigners suffrage a.
We want to win targeted professionally suitable personnel with an immigrant background, the Civil Service. Because of the integration and our society, it is important
that in the public sector, in daycare centers and schools people with intercultural competence
operate. These models characterize just children and young people positively.
Language is the key to education, to success and social integration. It
is therefore an imperative of fiduciary duty of the state to ensure that no child is left behind. Language proficiency testing for all children under the age of four years are a prerequisite
ensuring that all have equal opportunities. If necessary, have a targeted language support
before school and beyond lesson material Language Programs
necessary.
We want to educate and empower parents to support their children strengthened. Programs for the combined language support for parents and children demonstrate exemplary achievements.
Also for children is often the best starting point for catch-up integration support for parents.
Only late in our society has the insight prevailed that Germany is a
Is a country of immigration. Too late was the new citizens a real offer made
and an open integration policy operated. Remedial integration is therefore an
equally important and challenging task for society and politics. Here
we must work, those migrants who already for decades in some
Country are to take the integration process and not be lost to give. We rely primarily on education and labor market policy instruments.
We are looking for and ask for an open dialogue with all sectors of society and religious communities. All religious organizations and institutions are encouraged to basically open the entire German population towards. We use us
for the increased establishment of chairs of Islamic theology at German
Colleges for the training of German imams and Muslim religious teachers. We want to create an Academy of Islamic Studies, the public authorities in
Germany to advise and encourage the training of Muslim clerics and religious teachers in Germany.
Muslims are part of German society. This must also be reflected in the classroom. It must be understood that confession oriented Islamic
Religion is taught in the German language in schools, provided that generally takes place religious instruction in public schools and that the values ​​in the system
Embedded Basic Law.
We are committed to ensuring that the visa process is made more generous and flexible.
Also, immigration offices and embassies should not present a defense authorities
understand, but rather act as flagships of Germany. Germany is
a cosmopolitan country. Not least for its good business is the flexible exchange of
Employees and business travelers essential.
Germany has supported the efforts to improve the protection of refugees at the international level in recent decades and one of the ten
Major donor countries of the UN refugee work (UNHCR). We sit down
for a continuation of the resettlement program of UNHCR over the 2014 addition
on.
Asylum seekers are allowed to work from the first day of legal residence to. It
corresponds to the liberal self-understanding that people are not forced to do so,

48

to take government services to complete, but they have the option of their
To earn a living for themselves.
We have a date independent right to stay for young people and adolescents
created by the their parents can benefit. Now you have to vote in
the countries a general date independent solution for the thousands of sufferers are found living in Germany for many years, and will stay here in sight, as a waiver of its acquiescence is not foreseeable. Chain toleration
we want to abolish.

Culture and media as a mirror of diversity - culture of all, culture for all
So that more people can go their way in Germany and pursue their dreams, must
Opportunities are identified before you can take it. A prerequisite for this is a living,
free and diverse cultural life in Germany.
Art and culture are the social foundations for understanding among themselves and
a source of identity and creativity. They reflect the state of a society and drive
promoted their development. Without art and culture life loses its diversity, our society, our education would not be creative, technocratic and our economy is not innovative.
Liberal cultural and media policy lays the foundation that in future more people more
Opportunities will have. It promotes social participation, integration, equality of opportunity and
personal fulfillment for people of all ages and backgrounds.
For that we enter. For this we to occur.
We consistently focus on the principle of "Culture of all, culture for all". Therefore, we want
Anchor culture as a state goal in the Basic Law. Liberal cultural policy represents the citizens as
Designers, sponsors and recipients of art and culture at the heart. Cultural initiatives, clubs, free associations, foundations and companies have therefore
our support as a carrier of culture and cultural education. The promotion
cultural facilities in rural areas is of particular importance. We confess
expressly us for the public promotion of culture. Promoting cultural activities is not a subsidy,
but an investment in the future of our country. For a free development because just the new and original often need the arts promotion, beyond the self
supporting marketing place. We expressly welcome when public and private
and free cultural organizations for opening each other and form joint networks.
The public and publicly funded cultural production is a reflection of the diversity in our country. Germany is a country with a rich and diverse cultural activities and
Spiritual life which makes a vital contribution to the vitality and strength of our society. This strength and diversity we want to strengthen.
The cultural diversity of Germany is marked and enriched by the intercultural exchange and contact in our country as well as through exchanges with our international partners. Liberal cultural policy does not stop at ethnic, religious
or national boundaries but has expressed its commitment to the promotion of intercultural contact in art and science.
Cultural Education defines the future of our society. It is a task of our education and our cultural institutions. A cultural nation like
49

Germany is to make all people specifically with cultural offerings familiar. To this end,
one in particular, the teaching of media literacy.
The cultural and creative industry is an important driver of innovation, whose contribution we
want to know more valued. We want to ensure that self-employed persons and companies in the cultural and creative industries have better access to debt
and will assist in the development of foreign markets companies. The
Cooperation between business and politics at the German Computer Game Award and the Film Fund finds our support.
Cultural and creative industries would be inconceivable without the protection of intellectual property.
Violations of intellectual property on the Internet are just as consistent and effective
be combated as violations of copyright in the analog world. Existing
Legal uncertainties in a digitized world by a modern copyright
dispel. This should make the balance of interests between creators and rights holders as well as users and service providers fair. At the same time it has the uncensored communication, allow the free flow of information and access to knowledge and innovation.
Our democracy thrives on the media and diversity of opinion in the analog and digital world. In both worlds fair cooperation of print media and broadcasting must be ensured. This also includes a toll-subsidized market distortion
out. In order not to penalize radio and press against providers on the Internet, modernization of Medienkonzentrations- and antitrust laws are required. Us
called for an examination and definition of the public service mission of public service broadcasting. Funding is at this public service mission
orient, no more and no less.
The new flat tax for the Broadcasting Service as well as the contribution GEZ successor
should be abolished and replaced by a personal delivery. This should be retracted together with the income tax from the tax office and be significantly lower than today's broadcast delivery. The exemptions from the fee due
of social hardship or disabilities are to reintroduce. More revenue through
Changeover to the post service are at the following year by lowering the contributions
the broadcast participants repay. In addition, the public service broadcasting needs to focus on its core tasks and a close-to-understand educational mission. The number of channels of public service broadcasting in Germany should therefore be significantly reduced. We want to adjust the existing oversight of our broadcast media the media political reality of networking broadcasting, Internet and telecommunications.
The Artists' Social Security is one of the pillars of social protection many creative. We Liberals talk for a reform of social insurance for artists
out. In particular, in the future is to be avoided, that of artistic excellence
Contributions are paid only if the provider of the service does not have a member of the Artists' Social Security. Moreover, measures to improve the social situation of artists have perpetuated or new if necessary
be adjusted.

50

Germany as a travel destination
Germany is becoming increasingly popular as a tourist destination - both in domestic as well as foreign
Guests. More and more people are working longer and increasingly will be, instead of a long
Annual leave booked a short break.
A solid tourist infrastructure, even outside the major metropolitan areas, ensures a relaxing holiday in the area. The cities of Hamburg, Berlin and Munich as magnets attract tourists as well as the "classic" sights, such as the UNESCO natural and
Heritage sites, are beacons of tourism marketing.
The cultural tourism is an important factor for the preservation of German cultural goods. Old towns, castles
and locks be strengthened through tourism. By income from tourism
are means of preserving the substance is available, so that the cultural heritage as a focal point
can be obtained for tourists.
For that we enter. For this we to occur.
We want to continue the successful development of the German tourism and so the
SMEs strengthen. The position of the German National
Tourism should be strengthened and thus intensified marketing efforts abroad to
Germany and its diverse regions to raise awareness through targeted, joint actions abroad.
The tourism in rural areas should be further strengthened. It provides added value and prospects, particularly in economically difficult regions.
The German waterways are to be of tourism continues to be fed.
Environmental protection and tourist uses not face each other, but let
to connect. Especially nature-based tourism offers great opportunities here.

51

IV. Freedom, so that everyone can go his way
More freedom allows people to go their own way. The right therefore has the
To create a task frame, which protects the freedom of individuals, promotes initiative and
state coercion applied only where it is absolutely necessary. This guiding principle is realized
In principle, the liberal constitutional state, which underlies our justice and home affairs.
The principle of the liberal constitutional state denied against unnecessary interventions and controls,
citizens gängeln and patronize, but provide neither security nor freedom. Therefore form
Fundamental rights a central pillar of the liberal constitutional state. They act as a strong barrier for the
Freedom. This Wall will be further expanded and defend him. Our motto is: If in doubt for freedom.
The liberal rule of law provides a framework, the citizens through their creativity and their
Fill inventiveness. We want this creativity not only in private but also for the
Common Area unfold. Therefore, the principle of the liberal constitutional state also stands for a
Further development of our proven democratic institutions. We want to open up political participation beyond elections and protest.

Fundamental rights in the digital world
Modern communication technologies, the global network through the Internet and
rapid exchange of data and information to open each individual previously unimagined possibilities of development. Digitization creates more freedom for more people, according to their
own needs and desires to connect with each other to participate and
creative to operate. They changed the reality of the state, economy and society. In order to
, the information society and the right to new challenges. For us Liberals
doing online and offline, that fundamental rights must be respected, since defends freedom
not by giving up.
In this way, we have already achieved a lot: we have "blocking" of the Federal Law Gazette deleted and the principle "Delete instead of Block" enforced, abolished the mass data collection with the Electronic Remuneration Statement (ELENA) and the event-free storage and
53

Analysis of all telecommunications data of all citizens, that is the retention, a
Refusal issued. With the Foundation's Privacy Policy, we are an important step towards a modern
Privacy gone. We have to secure the net neutrality in the Telecommunications Act
precautionary measures already taken.
We put in shaping the opportunities of the information society to self-determination
and enlightened user who is to make his own decisions in the situation. These decisions may be - no matter from which side - it does not decrease.
For that we enter. For this we to occur.
By linking and publishing data on the Internet is a new digital public with diverse opportunities. But it also threatens new threats, such as
when the Internet data left behind in social networks without the knowledge and consent of the
Concerned be used to create behavioral, usage or movement profiles, or carried out serious deterioration of personal rights. We therefore want to strengthen the privacy rights, particularly against serious interventions better
protect while developing openness and technology neutrality of the legal system
true ("red line for social networks"). Terms need to be formulated
be that the users understand this.
We want to improve the protection of private data on and strengthen the independence of the Data Protection Officer. Responsibility for data protection will in future lie with the Federal Ministry of Justice. We are committed to a high level of protection in the future EU Data Protection Regulation. We want to create a modern, technology firm data protection law, the justice of the great importance of data protection in the digital world
is, and will receive the domain-specific data protection. Privacy and Freedom of the Press
but should not be pitted against each other. Set in the social sphere
we on the responsible citizen and want to self Privacy and Data Protection
strengthen technology. The use of RFID chips as to improve logistics
may not be the case for the consumer privacy. RFID chips of goods - about
in clothing - are to be deactivated completely and permanently at checkout. We want to
Improve data protection in the workplace by an employee data protection act and
Provide legal certainty for companies and workers.
We further reject the anlasslose retention. People in
Germany must not put a lump sum under suspicion and without cause during mobile
Making calls, sending text messages or surfing the internet are monitored.
Germany is also without data retention a safe country. The powers of the
Police provide already today for high detection rates. Where it imperative
appears, we are committed to a fundamental right gentle alternative data retention. In individual cases should in concrete suspicions - that just does not anlasslos - already secured existing data and then by judicial decision
Can be used investigation purposes, if corroborated the suspicion. With the introduction of eCall is to ensure that this is switched off and is carried out exclusively on a voluntary basis. Compared to the European Commission, we are on
penetrate that missed data retention directive is considering the European Charter of Fundamental Rights and revised. Until then, we are in front of the

European Court of Justice continues to advocate that there is no judgment in infringement proceedings against Germany before the Court ruled on the compatibility of the content retention policy with the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. Any demand for a worsening of the European
Data Retention Directive, such as on communication data from social
54

Networks, as is currently being considered by the European Commission, is on our resistance
meet in Germany and Europe.
Projects that the full and all spheres of life of our comprehensive monitoring
Company have the consequence, we reject. So we can not guarantee against a further and
To examine the implementation-driven at EU level INDECT project from that automates behavioral patterns among the public on standard deviations to
behavioral abnormalities seen. For liberals, it is ruled out that algorithms
to determine as to what is "normal behavior" in a society and what
not and that are linked to this "statistical normality understanding" intervention in the freedom. At the center of our thoughts and actions of the human being in his
Individuality and his right to be allowed to be different.
Further data collection on stocks such as anlasslose retention of PNR data or a comprehensive coverage of all border crossings in Europe we reject. The
Capture everyday behavior of innocent citizens is every man under suspicion and is incompatible with human dignity. Where continuous monitoring
take place, there can be no free development.
We will enter in the future that the data traffic in the network is free. The
People in Germany should not have to accept the fact that all their data in
Internet is monitored and analyzed by the Government. Net Neutrality is as
Basic principle of the regulation of telecommunications recognized. This means that there must be no discrimination against individual offers within a service class. The same must be treated equally.

Modern law for a modern society
Law must accept and make changes in society - and always the fundamental rights
eighth. The Basic Law is the value framework of our coexistence. Changing the world,
must understand changes when it should not affect the right backwards.
A modern society requires modern law. Globalisation, technological development and changes in the social reality, such as open family pictures
offer many new opportunities, but also provide us with new challenges in data protection, in
Copyright, in family law or respect for citizens' rights.
Therefore, we have created more individual freedom, by having introduced a return to a more fundamental rights-based rights policy. For the first time in decades, there is no new
Safety laws and the provisions adopted in response to the September 11, 2011 anti-terror laws
were disarmed and provided with constitutional checks. The civil rights throughout
different regions strengthened through laws - from freedom of the press through to
better protection of lawyers before monitoring. The diverse reality of life we've been through
numerous reforms supported, for example in family law. Have to protect the property
We fought the Mietnomadentum, by within the rights of the small landlords in the housing market and have strengthened outside of the judicial process.
We protect the freedom of people in front of a regelungswütigen State. We do not want a suspicious State which supplies all citizens under general suspicion. We want a republic of free citizens
and a policy for the rights and freedom of people in our country.
For that we enter. For this we to occur.

55

The interception of telecommunications may be used in Germany only within narrow legal
Borders it is carried in relative extent and with clear legal protection. We want that in the future, this limit is respected. The ever-increasing
Number of telecommunications monitoring gives rise to an examination as to whether the rule of law fuses are anchored effectively and also in everyday life
law enforcement for the protection of citizens' rights prove.
We are committed to observe the practice of so-called radio cell queries accurately and, where appropriate, to concretise the legal requirements on the principle of proportionality by law. Under no circumstances must uncontrolled mass queries - come - such as constitutionally protected meetings.
The rights of people in voluntary DNA screening, we want to strengthen.
Otherwise there is an erosion of the right to refuse to testify. We will therefore
expand the teaching duties and make other procedural fuses presupposes such screenings.
The core area of ​​private life we ​​want to protect more. The inclusion of a
called Spähangriffs in the Criminal Procedure Code, we reject. The so-called Great bugging is in light of the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court and in view of the benefits for successful fight against crime on the
To provide test.
The "Deal" in criminal proceedings must comply with the requirements of the Federal Constitutional Court
to be checked. Should this review show that the principles of fair
Process and blame reasonable punishment not be sufficient to ensure that
has the "Deal" to be excluded by law if necessary.
Furthermore, we want the protection of professional secrecy - further strengthen and review the Code of Criminal Procedure, - for example, doctors, lawyers, clergy, social workers
whether further professional secrecy should enjoy absolute protection.
In criminal cases, a careful handling of victims of violence needs to be self-evident. Courage is a necessary condition of civil society. The state should therefore honor the commitment and dedication of citizens more that meet the offenders in the way to help the victims. Even victims of miscarriages of justice we want to help more. We therefore support the introduction of an appropriate point of contact.
We stand for a modern family and inheritance law that expands the possibilities of citizens disposition. This includes for us more freedom to make of the deceased as well as the additional property regime of so-called community property of spouses and registered partners. The family and succession situation we want
the realities of modern reproductive medicine (eg sperm donation) adapt.
We remain on the European Private Company, which is the Europe-GmbH, a,
to the export-oriented German SMEs to provide a legal form,
with which can be cost-effectively operate throughout Europe.
For the liberal rule of law and independent judiciary is a powerful indispensable. To strengthen the autonomy of the judiciary, the external right to issue instructions to the Land administration of justice with respect to the prosecutor's offices should be abolished, in order to prevent any appearance of political influence on the judiciary. It will also involve
Shortening the duration of proceedings before the courts. The justice we want to make them fit for the
modern information society and globalization. Before the chambers of commerce law will in future be able to negotiate in English. We want the in-

56

Removing tional legal cooperation on the law of exports with the emerging and transition countries field.
In order to ensure greater legal certainty on the question of what the state liable
may be, we advocate the introduction of a State Liability Act.
We want to modernize the copyright for it the balance of interests between
Creators, rights holders and users fairly designed and provides access to knowledge and innovation. Only when it is clear who owns what intellectual power, can the
Respect people of this ownership structure, build fair trade relations and on developing new business models in order. Demands for monitoring and
Censorship of the Internet traffic to the imposition of economic interests, we reject.
The so-called "three strikes" solution, according to the citizens' access to the Internet is to be withdrawn, we reject because it is disproportionate. The international cooperation we want to strengthen and transparent forms are portals with clearly infringing content whose servers in third countries which offer to end
be able. Illegal deals to be specifically tackled and allowed for operators
no longer be lucrative.
His copyright in the information society must be open to technology and let the different licensing models coexist without discrimination. The choice of authors, how they want to market their works, we want to secure and
Legal framework of copyright designed so that it remains open to creative recycling models.
Researchers and scientists should continue to decide for themselves whether their works
and contributions are freely accessible, or whether they are under a license. This also applies to
publicly funded research projects. This freedom of deciding how their own
Works are used, must not be taken by legal regulations. Just
with the incentive of all possibilities of development research can also be operated beyond public funding continue. However, we put in publicly funded
Research for a promotion policy that fundamentally the publication of results
the goal, to the extent not contrary to compelling concerns.
In copyright law is clear that a private copy regardless of a technical copy protection is admissible if the purchaser has previously acquired the business and the private copy is made solely for personal use such as for data backup or to play on another playback device. The technical means for barriers according to putting the work must be submitted by the right holder available.
The accounts query in various fields of law belongs to the absolutely necessary
Measure returned. Only when actual evidence of fraud, social security fraud or serious offenses are present, account inquiries should be practiced.
Similar to the query of inventory data are also with account queries concerned
subsequently informed.
Criminal liability gap in data handling stolen goods it is to close. Not only that OBTAINING and the unauthorized use of data shall be punished but also the
Disclosure of unlawfully obtained data. Therefore, we support the inclusion of
Offense of receiving stolen property data into the Criminal Code.
We liberals stand for a legal development, the legal digital business models
and the free movement of data and information flow not flattens. We are therefore under
others for a change of operator liability in order to create more legal certainty for WLANBetreiber.

57

More freedom - liberal domestic policy
The people in our country should go its own way and can develop freely. For
but the search for personal happiness they must also have the space. Therefore, the
Defense of liberty rights of the individual against interference by the State or third highest for us
Priority.
We have kept our word and ended the staccato of ever new security laws. We have
in the extension of the anti-terrorism law supplements a balance
enforced between freedom and security. In this common regulations which are as expendable
have proven to be deleted without replacement and drafted constitutional fuses. The remaining provisions were limited to four years and again with significant improvements in the
constitutional control and protection of fundamental rights provided. We educating
NSU killings vigorously pursued.
It remains our goal to provide the people of Germany more freedom. More freedom,
own way to go. This course we believe.
For that we enter. For this we to occur.
We want to strengthen and revitalize democracy in our country. In a mature democracy, the citizens should receive a direct influence on the political decision-making via elections also. We advocate for an opening and strengthening of representative democracy. For this purpose we want to with the introduction of Bürgerplenarverfahrens,
an optional legislative referendum and the constitutional anchoring of
Popular initiatives, referendums and plebiscites an appropriate basis
create.
New media open up new opportunities for civic participation and reduce the obstacles to
common interests perception in our society. We want these opportunities
use as a supplement for our representative democracy. Information on the Internet provide people with new opportunities and the policy of interaction.
Under Open Data refers to the free availability and usability of data. In the
public administration and public enterprises are in a variety of data
before that neither particularly protected from data protection nor rights restrictions
must be, but are made available for use and further processing
be able. We stand for the continuation and the expansion of existing public open data offerings. As much data from public administration and public
Businesses should there in machine-readable form and using an open
License are made available to such a use of the data and to innovation
enable. The wide spread of the Internet also offers possibilities for better citizen participation in Germany. We are committed to develop the digital communication channels and to create new channels if necessary, to supplement the existing services. In the area of ​​e-government the citizens are more informed as
be and be able to communicate with the authorities easier. The long-term
The aim is to allow the participation of also using modern communication paths, so that
citizens can participate in political debates on a daily basis.
Democracy begins in our cities and communities. That is why we want to strengthen the self-determination of communities through a comprehensive municipal finance reform and sit down at the same time for more transparency and participation in municipal decisions
on. We want a municipal foreigners suffrage for third country nationals.

58

A functioning public service is an important pillar of our democratic
Law. We are committed to civil service, because it benefits associated for the fulfillment of sovereign functions to which, for example, special duties of loyalty and prohibition of strikes by civil servants belong. We are committed to improvement
For drive of acquired pension rights, a, for a more flexible date of retirement and for a strengthening of the power idea. In raceway right to
the completion of a station at a European or international organization
are significantly more weight than previously.
We want a well-fortified democracy, which is armed against all extremist threats. Terrorism and extremism continue to fight consistently and
pursue. Therefore, we will by the expansion and co-ordination
Insert Deradikalisierungsprogrammen. Where intervention in citizens' rights are necessary,
they must always be re-justified and proportionate. Therefore, we want
check the applicable securities laws continually on their appropriateness.
In the field of police of the core area of ​​private life requires stronger
Protection. This includes in particular the BKA-law to the test. We hold the instrument of secret online searches, neither necessary nor appropriate,
but rather see it as a far-reaching interference with the fundamental rights, allows the complete access to virtually every aspect of life of the person concerned.
In order in and around football stadiums to improve safety, we put Liberal on
the consistent implementation of the National Concept for Sports and Security and the ten-point plan for improved safety in football. Clubs and associations make here together with the fan support an outstanding social work. To reduce violence in
Connected to sporting events are preventive approaches, a permanent dialogue between all
Actors and consistent law enforcement in our view makes more sense than building
of Drohkulissen from the ranks of the Interior Ministers of the countries. Civil rights also apply
in sport. We oppose disproportionate interference with fundamental rights against soccer fans.
To protect the freedom of individuals is the duty of the state. The security agencies in Germany make every day an outstanding contribution to securing the
Human freedom and the rule of law. Especially cops are like no
other occupational group for law and order. This confirms the outstanding work of the police
can be continued in the future, Germany needs a reasonable security architecture of authorities with good equipment to personnel and material.
Police is and remains first and foremost in Germany the states. In a federal security architecture of cooperation and the exchange of information between all are
Authorities, however, essential. In order to improve this further, we want the legal
Create a basis for common centers of police cooperation and so
protect their constitutional function and control. In order to ensure effective prosecution of anticonstitutional organizations and individuals, we are supporting the
Summary of individual state OPCs and want to strengthen the cooperation between the state OPCs.
Also at the federal level, we want the security architecture to the requirements of time
to adjust. An extension of police and intelligence competencies
However, we reject as federal principle as a deployment of the Bundeswehr in
Inside. Unclear responsibilities and dual responsibilities are to be released. Police and
Intelligence agencies should concentrate on their core tasks. The increasing Vernachrichtendienstlichung police we reject, as well as the extension of the powers of the intelligence services in the area of ​​security. We are committed
the federal system in the field of security agencies and want at the same time a
59

Return to the areas of competence of the security agencies, both between
Federal and state governments as well as between police and intelligence services. The tasks of the
Military Counter will in future perceive Bundeswehr and Protection of the Constitution. The fragmented structures in securing our coasts we want in a
national coastguard bind together.
Digital attacks on public institutions or companies, such as energy or water utilities, on infrastructure such as transport companies or financial institutions, can the
Impair functioning of our society fundamentally or to a halt
bring. We want to strengthen Germany's ability to such threats effectively
oppose, and all areas of public life against digital attacks led
arm. But IT security can not be guaranteed first and foremost the state, but is
the responsibility of the companies, users and providers. We see especially the economy's responsibility, by investing in IT security and jointly agreed standards for data security and protection mechanisms of their responsibility for the
To be information society.
We want to ensure full parliamentary oversight of the intelligence services. Members of the Parliamentary Control Panel at any time and without notice to provide access to services, information and documents provided
this is necessary for control. Employees of services should be able to be summoned by the Board at any time by a qualified one-quarter minority. The work of the
Panel will be supported by the appointment of a permanent expert,
inter alia, the work in committees of inquiry as an investigating officer
supports. About the use of undercover agents, the Panel is every six months by the
To inform the federal government.
The illegal possession of weapons is a threat to the security of citizens. That's why
We are committed to pursue illegal weapons possession consistently. We sit down
for a continuous, scientifically supported review of the current firearms legislation
on; also suspected independent controls belong to the test. We reject a further tightening of the current firearms legislation. The introduction of a weapons control and the central storage of rifles and shotguns does not serve security and
therefore ajar of us.
The programs for preventing extremism are and will remain a key element for the
fortified democracy. They strengthen our democratic state from the inside and help
people to immunize against extremist ideologies and against incompatible with our Constitution ideologies. These programs should be evaluated regularly.
The memory of the two German dictatorships, to their victims, the perpetrators and the resistance to it is a task for society. The younger generation knows
Unfreedom, state terror and deprivation of rights in Germany - fortunately - only from history books. The aim is to further sensitize young people in particular with reference to the dictatorship of German history for the value of freedom, rule of law and humanity. We are strengthening our democratic political culture, as we worked up, remind, enlighten and remain so judiciously. Extremism must not be tolerated or excused - regardless of whether it is right or left religiously motivated.

60

Transparency and information - for fair competiton
For liberals is from the consumer to think a core task. For consumer policy combines
the traditions of a wise economic policy with liberal civil rights. Liberal consumer policy therefore focuses on strengthening the consumer in the market. We ensure that
Consumers through transparency and information about products and services in the location
be added to select a self-determined. Our consumer policy permits and
encourages self-determined choices.
Liberal Consumer Policy opposes political tutelage of the consumer control. We therefore reject an extension of advertising bans or the introduction of specific
Consumption tax from. Loopholes for cheaters and cheaters we close. For more efficient consumer protection is economic policy for everyone. A functioning market economy needs the
Confidence of market participants to each other. Therefore defended liberal efficient consumer protection
the honest businessmen against the "windy". In cases of dispute, we facilitate the consumers
Law Enforcement.
In this sense, we have made in recent years, for example, the free telephone queue with service hotlines for duty. We have introduced a price announcement obligation in the call byCall telephony and for ensuring the transparency of tenders. In contracts
the internet all costs must now listed clearly visible for consumers prior to the conclusion of the contract and be confirmed by the consumer (Internet button). The rights of
Air passengers, we have improved by an arbitration board on the way aviation
have brought to resolve their disputes with providers centrally and cost-effective manner. In order to
we have all the information provided to consumers improves, curbed dubious business models and strengthening the rights of consumers. This way an efficient consumer protection
We intend to continue.
Especially the recent food scandals - for their consistent education we are committed -
show that an effective consumer protection must also be a European consumer protection.
That's why we put liberals us to ensure that we do not compromise in Europe and a high
Level of consumer protection is ensured within the European single market.
For that we enter. For this we to occur.
Planned "obsolescence" of technical equipment we want to fight more effectively.
Technical standards should for example ensure interchangeability of batteries and non-destructive opening possibility of equipment from a specific device value. We strive
subsidiary also EU-wide solutions and the consideration of the problem in international trade agreements on.
Consumer education must start at an early stage - in the home, in kindergarten and in the
School. We want that particular business contexts in schools are taught intensively than before. Consumer education should be established as an essential component in the curricula. However, a continuous consumer education is of utmost importance. We therefore advocate the provision of consulting services, events and information brochures of Consumer Organizations
or other consumer associations, as well as information and comparative studies on products and services through the media and independent organizations such as the
Stiftung Warentest. The support of these deals by federal and state governments must be given their importance in the future secured and if necessary strengthened.

61

In the area of ​​telephone service hotlines, we want to align call charges from a mobile phone which from a landline. For telephone information services, we want to introduce price transparency through a mandatory price announcement before the payment obligation.
Due to the different business models that telcos offer
as the provider to connect partially with significant limitations in the Internet.
Volume rates, ie a limit of transferred data quantities must be clearly labeled as such in order to allow the citizens a transparent decision
and thus strengthen competition.
The current food scandals show more than clear that the food controls in Germany are not working optimally. Sufficient staffing
in the food control we want to make. Necessary are the introduction of nationwide standards for food inspection, the establishment of key prosecutors and an improved exchange between the countries. For violations of the Food Law of the existing sanctions comprehensively exercise. We will review these instruments for their effectiveness. We also want the existing structure of official control by State
complement overarching special units especially for wholesalers. By product, sector and company-specific expertise as efficiency and effectiveness of controls and strengthen communities can be relieved.
The origins of the food is important for their purchase decision for more consumers. Already put many traders voluntarily on origin labeling,
even if this is not legally binding. We Liberals support this approach and expressly call upon industry to further expand this marking and making them accessible to the consumer in principle, provided that after the
Nature and composition of foods is possible and useful.
Genetically modified organisms are already being used in many manufacturing processes to the benefit of consumers, for example, in drug production.

Whether he wants to use these products, about every consumer should but - as usual -
can decide completely free. We will therefore for an identification of such
Food a so this decision is at all possible. At the same place
we attach importance to a scientific and objective information and consumer education
about the benefits and value of modern production methods.
Related products, which are sold freely and legally tradable, must not be pushed through advertising bans and trade restrictions from the market. Such tutelage of consumers can not be reconciled with the model of the responsible citizen in harmony. Such intervention in the market economy and in the decision empowered consumer
We reject in principle. Family settings in tobacco and alcohol, however, be strictly
guarantee. The gastronomy lives from the customer's trust. This trust
to ensure high quality standards, is in everyone's interest. Securing and
However, control of quality by public authorities must remain proportionate.
The holder of an itinerant trade has demonstrated the competent clerk's office,
no doubts about his personal integrity is. He has in the itinerant trade called services legally. Therefore he must not be longer for advertising,
Tender submission and acceptance of orders are limited.
We want that financial services are more transparent and easier for the customer and financial products to facilitate comparability. Only then can we allow investors a responsible choice. To this end, we want product information sheets
unify and thereby also a classification of financial products in binding
Pretending risk classes in the product information sheets.
62

We will strengthen passenger rights continue. This delay compensations are also effective in the total passenger, punctuality must be worthwhile for businesses. We want to oblige the German Railways, therefore, in case of delays of 30 minutes or
passengers, 25 percent of the price and in case of delays from 60 minutes
To reimburse 50 percent of the travel price.
We are committed to ensuring that children's toys safer. The detained in EUSpielzeugrichtlinie limits limit values ​​for polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs), heavy metals and allergenic fragrances are not sufficient to ensure an efficient health. We urge therefore on
an improvement in the standards for the protection of our children. Therefore, we want the
Limits for PAHs and heavy metals (lead, cadmium, mercury, arsenic and others) lower compared to the current version of the EU Toy Safety Directive. Moreover, striving
Let's say the material to tighten requirements for liquid and pasty toy materials and align it with the requirements for cosmetic products.
Consumers need significantly more legal certainty against Abmahnmissbrauch. For this purpose,
a cap on Abmahngebühren an important signal. Unjust or exaggerated warnings have evolved into a business model. This dubious
Business practices, we want to strongly curb and simultaneously obtain copyright validity. We therefore want to cap the amount in dispute for injunctive relief or remedy claim during a single violation in non-commercial sector to 1,000 euros.

63

V. progress so that our country will win the future
Dreams and ideas are the raw material from which we have won our prosperity. Maverick,
Researchers and entrepreneurs who pursues an idea, realized a dream and thus innovation,
Progress have created the foundation have laid for the growth and advancement of our country. Continue to give these people the chance to pursue their ideas, is a commandment
of reason. Because only with the courage to innovate and with joy at the change we will
Future gain. But for liberals, the freedom of thought and freedom of research is still
much more: it is a human right.
Why we are in the strongest terms to ensure that we in Germany not out of fear
New miss the future - and lose those or distribute, of their dreams and
Ideas our country lives. That is why we - the increased investment in education and research to nearly 14 billion euros and beaten with the Academic Freedom Act the progress breached - even in times of budgetary consolidation.
We will not meet the challenges of our time by laws and bans, but only by growth and progress. This is especially true for the tasks ahead of us in the climate and environmental protection. As an exporter of ideas and innovations, we are helping energy and
To save resources, avoid emissions and the quality of life and prosperity of
To increase people.
We want to be one of the motors of innovation for the development of the world in the future. To
we need in Germany the necessary infrastructure: Modern research facilities and production facilities, power grids, efficient systems for renewable and conventional
Energy, a comprehensive and fast Internet access. Modern infrastructures and a
comprehensive, affordable mobility services are for a progressive republic of free citizens
indispensable.
Progress means growth. But that does not always mean more of the same always. But
Growth through progress primarily means better goods, more efficient production and more attractive services. Therefore growth through progress means sustainable growth - in the
Environmental, economic and social cooperation.

65

Sustainable development does not necessarily mean doing without. It's not just about less
to consume, but to use intelligent. It's not just about, less to throw away, but rather to reuse more. Resources efficiently and to use the sense of a recycling economy, requires technological innovation and intelligent utilization concepts.
Those who learn to think in contexts and interactions, develop a sense of
Possible and discovered opportunities for innovation. Disadvantages may prove advantages and
the waste of a product are resources for another commodity. New technologies and solutions must therefore not be primarily judged on whether it the single negative consequences
mitigate today's economic activity, but whether they lead to overall improvements and positive interaction of economic, social and environmental aspects. An enhanced, systemic
Look at the value chain, which focuses on technology, innovation and comprehensive solutions,
creates a sustainable, responsible and systemically smart growth.

Winning the Future - new knowledge through research and development
For the success story of Germany in recent years, people have in this country
laid the foundation stone. These people have made an effort. Out of responsibility for themselves,
for their families, their colleagues, employees and citizens. You have growth and progress
created because they had to the freedom - and they have used.
We want to continue to give people the freedom to pursue their ideas - and thus create growth, progress and prosperity for all. Have through the Academic Freedom Act
we have given the science and the business community alike greater freedom, removal of barriers
and research and teaching again closely merged.
We have invested almost 14 billion euros more in education and research. Because knowledge is the
main raw material of our country. If we take care of it accordingly, he will never run us
and remain high. Knowledge creates new knowledge and makes you want to new. We may use the
Future not oversleep from fear of the new.
For that we enter. For this we to occur.
We want to increase the number of research-based and innovative enterprises and
expand our leading position as the world champion of technology exports. We create
the political and institutional framework to ensure that science can carry out their own research approaches and creativity, curiosity and spirit of research
can develop wide. For this purpose we want to, inter alia, norms, standards and technical
Rules harmonize worldwide.
We create the conditions to ensure that the share of spending on research and
Development, which is already well above the EU average, also in the
next few years will continue to rise. In a sign of fiscal consolidation, we want to
investing strategically necessary research and areas of growth and a tax
Introduce research funding.
We want small and medium businesses with its own top-level research an unbureaucratic and accelerated entry into the technology-specific promotion
enabling research and development. The start-ups from research and
Science out we want to help more. In Germany, the Land of Ideas,
to new products and technologies not only developed, but also produces and
66

be applied. Logically we want to continue and further develop the program EXIST. To the financing gaps in the early stages of innovative businesses
close, we are committed to improving the framework for private
Venture capital a.
We have transmitted to the Academic Freedom Act extramural scientific institutions significantly more autonomy and flexibility in their economic management. Unnecessary regulations were dismantled, strengthened incentives and enables a more efficient use of resources. Now it is time to find with the help of the Joint Science Conference solutions that an implementation of this initiative and to the
Universities allowed.
We give the non-university research institutes and the German Research Foundation on the Pact for Research and Innovation, with an annual
Borrowing growth of five percent by 2015, financial planning security and flexibility.
In the future, we want to ensure a needs-based funding for research and development in Germany.
We are open to scientific progress and are committed to responsible management of research and science, instead of this, for example by
Civil clauses - ie the commitment of academic institutions to conduct research exclusively for civilian purposes - or massive reduction of funds for individual research to restrict.
We will continue the federal and state Excellence Initiative jointly managed.
Through them, the university research in Germany is nationally and internationally
visible, created competition and the promotion of young scientists
strengthened.

Building for the future - Modern infrastructure and affordable mobility
More people are in Germany have the opportunity to freely decide how they want to realize their desire for mobility. For this purpose it is necessary in literally, pave roads,
to connect to the world not to be missed. For this we also need in Germany but in
Europe the necessary infrastructure: Modern research and production facilities;
a comprehensive and fast Internet access, modern infrastructures, a comprehensive,
affordable mobility services and affordable housing.
That is why we have to plan the expansion of our energy networks for the first time coordinated across Germany, accelerates the expansion, while strengthening public participation. Us
have promoted mobility. The liberalization of the bus transport distance we have a whole new
Brought mobility to get you to Germany, which primarily people with low income
offers new opportunities to travel and participate in the society. And we work
continue to comprehensive, high-speed data networks and modern transport infrastructure throughout
Germany. The "noise privileging" the track (rail bonus) we have abolished. Future
is made between road and rail noise, no difference in the protection of local residents more.
A modern infrastructure and affordable mobility are free for a progressive Republic
Citizens indispensable. Only with them we can meet the challenges of globalization
and share the opportunities of our time. At the same time we want the cohesion of our

67

Strengthen society and make our contribution to making our cities and towns remain liveable.
For that we enter. For this we to occur.
Mobility is a piece of individual quality of life and personal liberty. This requires an efficient transport infrastructure. We are committed to a steady
Ameliorating the adverse effects of mobility, such as emissions of pollutants and noise, but are neglecting safety. Priority is given to combating
Emissions at source by stepping up research and constant technical development. An active noise management must contribute to the state after
art unavoidable emissions through organizational measures and to
to make verifiable facts based education as bearable as possible. One
demand transport infrastructure is also a decisive factor
our economy. We are therefore committed to the need to maintain our roads and expand as needed. This does not mean that
the state construction and operation must perform yourself. In many cases, offers cooperation with private service providers.
The road is and remains in an indirect future both in passenger and freight transport is the most important mode of transport. This must also be reflected in the distribution of investment funds. The progressive loss of substance in roads and bridges
ensures an increasing resource requirements.
At the same time the railway network comes in many regions to its capacity limits. That is why we also want to increase the investment in the rail network. For this purpose, it must be ensured, among other things, that the net income generated remain in power. As
Immediate action must Netzgesellschaft Deutsche Bahn within the Group
be independent. For this purpose, we want to control and profit
dissolve the Holding.
In addition to the competition between rail and long-distance buses, we also need more competition in the long distance rail itself. Disadvantages of the competitors on the
Rail We want to eliminate and the network through a separation of network and operation
give more independence. The partial privatization of the transport and logistics sectors
remains an important objective. The Network and infrastructure divisions will not be privatized.
We are committed as a transit country for an efficient integration into the trans-European
Transport networks, for the cross-border networking of metropolitan regions and a
better link a different transport modes. For this example, we want better connect airports to the high-speed rail network. The competitiveness of German seaports and inland ports, our doors to the world, we want to
by a rapid expansion of hinterland connections, but also necessary
Ensure fairway adjustments about the Lower Elbe, Unterweser, Ems and the River Warnow. Capacity constraints on federal waterways we want to eliminate and to ensure sufficient funding.
The full capacity of the sluices at the Kiel Canal to be restored as soon as possible. In addition to the renovation and expansion of
Kiel Canal are enshrined in an agreement between the federal government and the state of Schleswig Holstein. This agreement is intended to ensure the financing and implementation of an "Integrated refurbishment and expansion of concept" to complete this task by
a binding timetable with this necessarily increased personnel capacity
to fulfill.

68

We will make sure that German traffic locations and companies are not disadvantaged in international competition. Unilateral burdens and it alone, take the only German companies that we reject.
The coast is a common task: We are industry of the future Maritime Economy, the Maritime Alliance and the National Maritime Conferences. Of course
to reduce bureaucracy in the shipping division is right - our goal is first of all a national coastguard and a uniform flag state administration.
The German transport industry needs a reliable and fair framework and competitive. Therefore, we have the truck toll will not increase in the last parliamentary term and will also in the future only a modest adjustment based on a new
Eurovignette report agree. Distortions of competition at European level
We want to break. The nationwide field trial for long trucks to be continued and
Confirmation of positive results so far are to be approved for point-to-point traffic on highways long trucks.
We liberals reject a general speed limit on Germany's motorways. Speed ​​limits are intended to protect the residents from noise or traffic safety and are therefore determined always situational. Speed ​​controls are designed to transport safety, not filling state
Households. We will therefore work to ensure that radar warning devices for stationary
Systems are legalized, because so motorists to be careful driving at danger points
to be brought.
In order for the public transport (LPT) a reliable framework to
create, we have amended the Passenger Transport Act and conform to the European legal framework. We are committed to a needs-based public
Co-financing of public transport in Germany. Our mission statement is an entrepreneurial
and competitively oriented public transport. We want the medium-sized companies
Secure participation opportunities and in particular ensuring operators diversity in Busgewerbe.
Air transport is of great importance for Germany. We are therefore need for a coordinated, demand-oriented further development of airport infrastructure. We are also increasing the efficiency of air navigation services in
Europe press ahead with further improvement of the high level of safety. Simultaneously
we will through the development of active and passive noise protection,
Limiting noise pollution of air transport especially in the vicinity of airports, around a
to achieve a fair balance of interests between the aviation industry and residents.
In the further development of emissions trading for aviation, we want to achieve competitive neutrality and together with our partners in Europe and beyond
advertise for an extension. To improve the competitiveness of the location
Germany we demand the abolition of the aviation tax.
The steady increase in road safety is an important concern for us. New powertrain technologies, like silent electric cars and fast electric bikes, as well as demographic changes provide us here with new challenges. We rely
for pragmatic solutions with high acceptance a. A special focus will be put on the groups of young novice drivers and the elderly. also
we want to promote road safety education of the smallest road users continue.
We advocate for the nationwide introduction of the accompanying driving from 16 years.
Less traffic noise means more quality of life. At the same time increases noise better acceptance for the expansion of our transport infrastructure. We want the noise
continue to improve. We aim at a fair balance of interests between the Ver69

transport industry and the residents of roads, railways and airports come.
We want to preserve mobility and combat noise at source. We want for road testing and use of innovative noise protection measures (for example, new
Support variants of "Flüsterasphalts") stronger. In the area of ​​rail transport
We want to check whether the current design of noise-related track access charges
corresponds to the objective, an incentive for retrofitting of low-noise braking systems to
give. The noise abatement program for old galleries of the web, we will continue at a high level. Residents of military airports have the same right to noise protection
as residents of civil airports, because noise is health.
The demands on the mobility of citizens continue to increase, for example, the
To reach work or to secure the quality of life in sparsely populated regions.
Mobility must not become a social issue. Affordable and climate-friendly mobility
sets long-term advance to say goodbye to fossil fuels. We want this case in addition to the
Open efficiency improvement of conventional engines, the option for all technological pathways: Among other electric cars with battery technology, hydrogen-powered fuel cell vehicles and alternative fuels such as aviation. They have their strengths each in different segments of the car market.
The framework for electric mobility we want to improve. We advocate this as a subsidy-free incentive to buy traffic legal facilitation and
Introducing change indicator for electric cars as a second car for urban transport.
In biofuels, we make sure that it is not a competition between tank
and dish comes. For this purpose, the Energy Policy Objectives for the use of biofuels must be checked. That is why we want to promote research development
of second-generation biofuels, which are produced solely from waste from food crops and wood and organic waste, push to
long to minimize competition for land. At the same time we want to implement the
EU policy on biofuels more on incentives to use clean biofuels instead of rigid blending quotas, like E10, sit down again.
In addition to liquid biofuels, the use of biogas or liquefied natural gas is an option. By appropriate clarifications in the EEG for the separate accounting of
Feedstocks we want to allow Biogas from residues in the reinforced
Can fuel sector flowing instead into electricity.
In order not despite increased traffic the roads in growing cities
to take over its load limit, to complete, the infrastructure needs in
An integrated traffic management not only selectively extended and renovated
be, but it must also increasingly new training and work forms
use the possibility of modern communications technology, be encouraged.
Possibilities of home office, telecommuting, distance learning or online lectures reduce commuting and reduce the need for housing in the city center in the
Near work and schools.

Make attractive living environment - living in urban and rural areas
To have adequate housing, is an existential basic need of every human being. Task of
State in the social market economy is to create the framework for this. Also the
Challenges of demographic change, climate protection, and the integration and

70

Inclusion make innovative housing and urban development concepts for cross-cutting issue.
It occupies a key position for the economic and social development of our country.
Against the backdrop of demographic change, it is important demand-driven housing through
To create the inventory rebuilding and new construction alike. It applies, barriers not only in
the buildings but also reduce the public space. With energy, land and raw materials
sparingly, without overtaxing tenants and owners economically. This also applies
the differing requirements in urban areas, metropolitan regions and rural
Space to respond with effective solutions.
We want that people live well in Germany. We have therefore purchasing a home, for example, by the notional pension ("Wohn-Riester"), supports. To the energetic
To support rehabilitation of affordable housing and thus also contributing to low
To afford housing utilities, we have expanded the building modernization program and reforming the tenancy law. Exorbitant rent increases we have also prevented as the so-called
Mietnomadentum. For livable cities and towns, we also have the Urban Redevelopment federal programs further developed and expanded the financial scope.
For that we enter. For this we to occur.
Home ownership is an important contribution to retirement and the best protection against rising rents. That is why we Liberals here on the property. Models of Ownership promote such cooperative housing, home ownership pension ("Wohn-Riester"),
Of equity loans, purchasing groups, or assisting in the financing to be further developed. The promotion of home ownership is private
Free capital for housing and is an important element for reducing the housing shortage in urban areas.
More affordable housing to create and limit land use,
we want to facilitate construction and after-compaction in urban areas. That is why we want to make it easier, for example, the re-use of brownfield sites and the simplified designation of development plans for inner development.
Further regulatory intervention in the housing market, such as the rental and renovation Deckelungen prohibitions, we totally reject. They make the housing market even more inflexible, difficult to balance supply and demand on the market price, reducing the funds necessary for new buildings and renovations, thus contributing in addition to
Apartment shortage in densely populated areas.
We want to change course budget neutral in the housing promotion business of the Federation and the
Support construction of affordable rental housing more. The Federal allocations
for social housing in the country should be earmarked to prevent individual countries continue to use the money for other purposes. We liberals prefer the more flexible this subject support which in itself contrary
to promote individual object at the current family and income situation of the
Oriented tenant and not rigidly attached to the property. In this way, will also
Faulty assignments avoided. To improve the conditions in rental housing, we also want to introduce the declining balance depreciation (depreciation) again.
The Construction Law and relevant regulations must be checked for their effectiveness.
We want to cut red tape in order both to facilitate in conurbations conversions and consolidations and other, adjustments and restoration in rural areas
allow as flexible solutions on site. To this end, the urban development funds are to be evaluated accordingly, and adapted in case of possible negative developments to the requirements.
71

For a demand-driven housing supply of new housing must be straight in
his growing cities attractive. For this purpose, the rental of apartments must also reckon. Stronger state intervention in the pricing of new leases and renovation prohibitions jeopardize the housing and are therefore firmly rejected by us as well as interfering with the contractual freedom of brokerage.
The energy efficiency of buildings takes in implementing the energy turnaround a
Key role. That is why we want to increase the rehabilitation rate in existing buildings through incentives significantly to increase energy efficiency. This requires permanent planning and investment security for investors. That is why we are funding
the KfW Building Rehabilitation Programme continue at least at the current level.
As a second conveying We remain of the tax incentives for energy
Building renovation a.
The building renovation for us the principle of "incentives rather than coercion" applies. We disclaim
Forced from renovations of existing buildings. We also have the efficiency principle in view and demands for exaggerated requirements for environmental and
Energy requirements (EnEV) in existing buildings do not advocate. Regulatory law can only
New come to fruition. Here, however, we always want to keep the energy saving regulation on a technically ambitious stand. The basis is always the
overall energy efficiency of buildings, ventilation and heating systems have not
the arbitrary banning of certain technologies.
Demand for senior-friendly homes is growing. Therefore, barriers must be removed. Not all old or disabled persons need this accessibility. Often enough, the cost-effective poverty barrier to an independent and
to realize independent living into old age. This must be considered in the development programs accordingly in order to enable as many people to live in old age in their own homes.
We want strong cities and towns that are attractive and livable for people of all ages and in every situation. Therefore, we will continue the urban development programs the federal government and support the related efforts of the local authorities. To meet the requirements of demographic change, particularly in rural areas, we promote the strengthening of municipal centers where
social and technical infrastructure kept inexpensive and centrally accessible
can be.

The expansion of telecommunications networks is in principle for private enterprises. However, the basic provision of telecommunications services must henceforth include a broadband Internet connection. The content of the universal service is always dynamically adapt to growing transmission capacities.
For all construction and renovation work must be considered already that the
Housing and real estate market to respond flexibly to further structural changes
may need. Especially adjustments in the inner cities must be such that subsequent conversions and reclassifications are possible at any time.
The historical heritage and the conservation area should explicitly supported as identity and the culture of building are maintained. Therefore, we advocate a citizen
integrate early in relevant townscape formative construction projects already in the planning and in the construction process.
We want necessary infrastructure projects more transparent, cost-efficient and timely
realize. Tax dollars have to be used efficiently and effectively. We want
within the meaning of man and of Germany as unnecessary delays in the planning

72

prevent ning and construction process and long construction times and significant cost increases in local and national public works.

Make the future possible - environmental, nature and the climate for a liveable
World
Liberal environmental and climate policy focuses on innovation and new technologies. She sits on the
responsible citizens, not bans. Only then can we ensure that our children and the
future generations an intact habitat. What's more, as an exporter of ideas
and innovations, we help to save energy and resources, to avoid emissions and the
Quality of life to increase - now and in the future, in Germany and worldwide.
That's why we put our power faster on renewable energies. With the
Energy and Climate Fund, we have directed all revenues from the Emissions Trading in additional environmental protection projects. We have our resources for cooperation with developing countries
Climate and forest protection increased significantly. We have de-bureaucratised trade in emission rights. We are working to implement the adopted by us in the Federal Government's aim to
CO2 emissions nationally by 40 percent by 2020 and by 2050 by 80 to 95 percent compared to 1990
to reduce. This is continuously checked scientifically overlooking effectiveness and national implementation.
We have made possible by the reform of the recycling law more recycling. We have
air pollution from power plants and improved small-scale furnaces. Private motorists and
Craftsmen we supported in retrofitting their vehicles with particulate filters. With
the federal programs "Biodiversity" and "re-linking" we have conservation in
Germany sustainably promoted.
For that we enter. For this we to occur.
We Liberals put us on the basis of current research findings in each case for a
most drastic reduction in the emission of a negative for the greenhouse gases,
under a binding on all States new climate agreement. From our perspective, it must come to a short-term reduction in per capita CO2 emissions in all industrialized countries and a long-term harmonization of these emissions. Obligations should be organized on emissions and economic strength, not a traditional status as a developed or developing country. In the meantime, we are committed to a speedy ratification of the second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol.
We place a high emphasis on the climate emissions trading. He assured
an effective emissions control at the lowest economic cost. A replacement of the EU emissions trading scheme by a CO2 tax, we totally reject. Us
Liberals want the EU Emissions Trading Scheme to the entire transport and heating sectors
expand. Starting point should be the top level of trade fuels there. Taxes, losing their ecological steering effect may be reduced in return or
be abolished. We call for intensive negotiations to the EU Emissions Trading
with existing and planned trading systems, for example in North America, Korea and
To link Australia.
We Liberals will ensure also in the next legislature, that the commitments
Germany to finance climate protection projects in developing countries - both
73

complied with - for reducing greenhouse gases and to adapt to climate change
be and the use of allocated resources is controlled.
Yet almost a decade will be operated nuclear power plants in Germany. The
Safety of the remaining reactors must remain assured at the highest level. Decommissioned nuclear power plants are dismantled quickly as possible to the
To utilize expertise existing workforce. The Nuclear Research and university degree relevant must be maintained in Germany. For the dismantling
the German nuclear power plants must be expertise and qualified personnel long term. In addition, Germany should contribute most to safe operation of nuclear power plants, particularly in our neighboring countries.
We stand for an open-ended search a repository for highly radioactive waste. At
a step-wise process to suitable locations to be checked. It should not
Location to be excluded from the outset. An intensive civic participation and a final location decision by a federal law to the social
Ensure acceptance of this national task.
In order to strengthen the protection of resources, we want recycling through the widespread
Promote introduction of the recycling bin. Herein are different from the yellow ton
not only packaging, but all appropriate recyclables are collected. The conversion must be done so that there is neither a preferential treatment of the municipal yet
Private providers come and parallel systems are avoided. We Liberals are in
Consumer interest for a competitive waste management industry. We support recycling. That is why we are committed to set ambitious recycling quota for the quantitatively important commercial and construction waste.
We are the political objectives for land use more on conservation objectives
align. We are liberals the pilot project for tradable certificates area
evaluate for further legislation.
Overall, the nature protection law needs to be cleared out, without the protection of
Nature comes up short. The states should have the opportunity, the so-called
Spare money other instruments of compensation equal footing. This procedure shall be paid to compensate for an earmarked money in the significant measures
Nature conservation will be invested in the same natural area. This is often more effective than a patchwork of individual measures.
The Alps are a unique habitat in Bavaria and throughout Germany, which is particularly dear to us liberals. The appropriations entered in Alpine protected areas we want to plan
obtain. Protective forests must be protected from deforestation - which consisted friendly farming should be supported by appropriate means. In principle, the modernization of existing tourist facilities to the construction going on. The Alpine Convention is
consistently implement.
Free-flowing rivers and river sections have a high ecological value. Not only
flood protection must be given to the waters more space. At federal waterways cooperation of federal and state governments is to improve
Navigability, flood protection and especially nature conservation concerns finally improved
become. Even with hydropower plants the interests of flood protection must be found as well as the natural and animal welfare compliance. A construction of barrages in Elbe
and Danube We reject further.
For us liberals of animal welfare is of central importance for many years. Free Democrats
are guided by the five freedoms: freedom from hunger and thirst; Freedom from
Uneasiness; Freedom from pain, injury, illness; Freedom to express species-appropriate behaviors; Freedom from fear and distress. The focus of our further
74

Efforts are the principles of sustainable management, the avoidance of economic disincentives, animal welfare and nutrition, and their effective
Control. We also support the reduction in the number of animal experiments
increased use of alternative methods. As successful animal protection can only be realized at European level, we call for a more engaged EU policy in this area.
The protection of biodiversity is a cross-sectional task in all policy fields
Must be taken into account. We are the federal program Biological Diversity, the
was launched in our reign, to expand. When cultivation of energy crops should be ensured that not mainly on farmland
harmful for nature and the environment monocultures arise. We make conservation with
the people. Nature People like sailors, hikers, climbers and mountain bikers can at
Questions of nature conservation not as enemies, but should be considered as an interlocutor on an equal footing. Therefore, we put more emphasis on voluntary measures and the
Contract conservation, subordinated only to sovereign reserve regulations and prohibitions. Slashed biotope networks should be brought together again, as we in
the federal government began with the federal program rewiring.
The protection of biodiversity worldwide has the objective of preserving the genetic reproductive potential of future generations. In order to protect the tropical forests,
we support models for rewarding avoided deforestation permissible, measures
against illegal logging, the targeted poverty alleviation in the affected areas as well as the certification of wood. A need to protect the marine flora and fauna
global system of marine protected areas be created. In particular, African countries need to be able to prevent illegal fishing more effectively in their economic zones.
We need a sustainable fishery that receives the stocks that is appropriate to the species and the
Animal welfare guarantees. The bottom trawl fishing is limited to. In any case, the
Curb industrial fisheries through the designation of priority and exclusion areas. Since the staple food fish is threatened by overfishing,
should also be further improved conditions for sustainable aquaculture.
We want to continue our efforts at European level to ensure sustainability certification of all agricultural commodities, as they are already for biofuels
consists. When certifying the commitments for European farmers (cross-compliance rules) are to be recognized without bureaucracy.

Responsibility for one's decisions take - act sustainably
Where the people open up opportunities where open up possibilities, there is sustainable development possible. Who takes care of the people opportunities for their own life, makes
sustainable development impossible. Because sustainability has nothing to do with asceticism or a preservative in the world. In all action we need but may be responsible for the consequences for the environment, contemporaries and posterity.
That is why we have strengthened innovation, research and development. We have more education and allows the debt compared to the plans of the previous government to black and red
more than 50 percent reduced. The 150 billion euros less debt. After years of absence management, we have stabilized and begun our social systems, on a sustainable Finan75

financing switch. In the first elements for long-term care funding are introduced,
in a competitive health insurance premium model is introduced and in the pension
private provision has been further strengthened. The energy turnaround was accelerated and from the
ideological corset of red-green free, so that they can also succeed in the real world. And instead
to pay alimony, we have created new possibilities and opportunities: 1.6 million new jobs subject to social insurance represent 1.6 million new perspectives for people in
Germany and their families.
Sustainable development does not only affect the environment and climate policy. Sustainable development also requires sustainable management, generation just households and technical, social,
economic and scientific innovation.
For that we enter. For this we to occur.
Sustainable development is possible only in and through freedom. Sustainability has nothing to do with asceticism for liberals. The people of today have a right to a good
Life. We can not and should not conserve the world. But we have our actions
responsibility for the environment and posterity. Because we Liberals measure of freedom also
on the freedom of future generations. If we live today at the expense of future generations, we leave them the worst possible start in life. Future generations should but at least an equal chance to have freedom as people today.
In the interest of future generations requires a policy perspective of decades,
not by legislatures. We therefore advocate interagency and indicator-based sustainability strategies at national and European level. The proven
Bodies to support the sustainable development strategy, we will continue in the government and parliament.
We want to introduce an official Generationenbilanz. Here are benefits for
future generations - such as spending on education, infrastructure and social security - their exposure to sovereign debt, pension burdens and obligations
faced from generation contracts. The regulatory impact assessment is an
Supplement generational accounting central projects.
Sustainability also afterwards to reduce the debt of the state requirements for use of tax revenues to reduce debt and to put the social systems of our country permanently on a solid foundation, which carries over generations.
For sustainability also means that roads, buildings and other facilities in the area of ​​state infrastructure be maintained and modernized with the times. At present, the public investment in Germany not even enough in order
compensate for the age-related wear and tear in this area. We therefore call for continuous and targeted public investments in roads, roads, schools and other public buildings as well as public supply networks.
The development of Sustainable Development Goals at UN level must be consistent
the follow-up process to the Millennium Development Goals carried out. Parliaments are in
the development of the objectives included. For this purpose, we want to promote international parliamentary dialogue on the part of the federal government.
In the future, should the gross domestic product (GDP) remain as clear measurable size growth. But also should also regularly the indicators of wealth
and quality of life are reported, the proposed "growth, prosperity, quality of life" of the German Bundestag, the Study Commission.
The education system plays a special role in developing and promoting responsible behavior. Education for Sustainable Development must at all ages
76

are among the guiding principles of teaching, learning and action such as education
to peace, democracy, responsibility and tolerance.
Under rejection of prohibitions and requirements, we recommend nevertheless all establishments and companies intensively to ensure its own commercial interests to improve its own raw materials and environmental balance. Public companies should be under
their coverage when compiling their annual accounts in accordance with the German
Sustainability Code procedures.

77

VI. Responsibility to ensure that Europe remains a stable and reliable Community
The biggest gain in freedom in our country's history after the Second World War and
is the European integration process. The coalescence of an entire continent and its
Peoples has given millions of people the peace and the freedom to fulfill their dreams and
their own way to go. The Nobel Prize for the European Union this was historic
Achievement and the courage of the peoples of Europe appreciated.
We want this Europe has a strong future. We do not assume responsibility for peace,
Freedom, prosperity and security in a common Europe. If Europe is a continent of
Opportunities and togetherness remains. The great challenges of our time, we can only
cope by developing Europe into a global creative power on. For this purpose we want
Europe's strengths strengthen: the diversity of Europe, the market economy, the rule of law principles, decentralized decision-making. Centralism must not dominate Europe. Just
so we can preserve our community of values, say as an economic power and our interests make a European contribution to the future order of the world.
For this we want to overcome the debt crisis of individual Member States and our common
Provide currency and the Union on a firm foundation. The stabilization of the single currency is in the best interests of Germany. There is a big chance that the euro and
the European Union as a whole emerge stronger from the crisis. We think about the future
Europe. We want to realize the political union with decentralized structures. With our
Use for the Fiscal Compact and the future group of foreign ministers to intensify the European Union we have done big steps in this direction.
Europe is for us Liberals part of our cultural identity, our freedom and Reinsurance
at the same time need to exist in the future in global competition. These
to unique zone of freedom, prosperity and diverse cultural enrichment
preserve and develop is liberal promises and commitment. And this Europe
remains a magnet for people and nations.

79

Europe - Liberal promise and commitment
The competitiveness to improve, promote fiscal consolidation and our
Currency stabilize were needed to tackle the crisis and to open up a growth perspective. In addition, however, we must not forget that Europe is more than the euro. Europe is founded on shared values ​​and beliefs. And to preserve this community
and strengthening is also our duty and responsibility as the stability of our currency today.
The final report of those initiated by Germany future group of eleven foreign ministers
reflects the fact that many of our ideas fall on fertile ground. We know that
Europe a union of states with unique social, political, constitutional and
economic similarities is. Therefore, we want the path of deepening responsibly
go - towards a political union with fixed federal principles, democratic
Structures and a clear subsidiary order.
For this we to occur. For that we enter.
We want to turn the wheel of history in Europe forward and not back. On the
Path of integration we want to bring all 28 states. But the Convention method is right and envisaged by the Treaty on European Union path. Only when the Convention method
is not feasible because a few do not want another way must be chosen.
The fiscal pact has shown how this can be done. At the end of this development should
legitimated by a Europe-wide referendum European state standing.
A stronger coordination of economic policies to increase the competitiveness of Europe is an important staging post on the road to political union. We want to complete the European single market, the common agricultural policy more closely to the
Align principles of the social market economy and sustainability, Europe's leading role in the key areas of research, technology and services
strengthen.
We want a Europe of the citizens. The cornerstone of political union is democratic
Legitimacy and control. We are therefore committed the European Parliament
to develop into a full Parliament that offer equal right of initiative in legislation. Parliament itself should be able to decide on its seat. We want to
Suffrage to the European Parliament Europeanize and are committed to ensuring that in the future to take the European parties with transnational lists.
We want to strengthen the position of the Commission as guardian of the Treaties. But must the
Commission more efficient, but not greater. On the contrary: We advocate the reduction of the European Commission.
In addition to the European Parliament the Council of the European Union should play an essential role as an equal chamber countries to democratic control
and political compensation ("checks and balances") in the European multi-level system
to guarantee.
A citizens' Europe is characterized by firm and clear competences and the principle
of subsidiarity and proportionality from. Bureaucracy and centralism have it
no space. We want rather strong regions that are close to the citizens. We want
secure the legal principle of subsidiarity institutionally better use of existing instruments and build stronger and a European Court of subsidiarity, in the
you can also claim competence violations, set up.
80

We see in the enlargement of the EU is a great opportunity, if and insofar as candidates are ready for accession and the European Union is receptive. We also insist that the EU is progressing institutionally before agreeing to further recordings.
We will make sure that these recording conditions are strictly adhered to. Each new member must before a decision on taking all open
Disputes with its neighbors resolve conclusively. This applies in particular to the
The Western Balkan countries. We are pleased this year Croatia as the 28th member
the European Union welcomed.
With Turkey joins us for decades a profound partnership and joint membership in NATO. Since 2005, open-ended, the EU and Turkey are negotiating a Turkish EU membership. At the prospect of membership for Turkey
Let us remember. It may, however - as in all cases - no discounts in fulfilling the
Provide criteria for membership. We encourage Turkey to push forward the necessary reform process towards the rule of law and human rights determined.
Resolute constitutional reforms are a prerequisite for further EUAnnäherung the states of the Eastern Partnership. Thus, for example, the Ukraine in the long term then a chance of a prospect of accession, if it in the coming years
consistently puts on a course of modernization and continuously to EU standards
zoom operates.
The Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and the European Convention on Human Rights must in all EU Member States, regardless of political color
the national government are respected. Developments such as, for example, in
Hungary and Romania, which upset the balance of political forces by an exaggerated claim to power of the government, we will therefore continue to resolutely
oppose.
We want to strengthen and protect our common values ​​and to the process of
improving European judicial state control. Until now, the EU can only act if there are already serious and permanent injury to the common European values
have occurred. We want below this threshold laid down in Article 7 of the EU Treaty establishing a proportionate mechanism which allows the European Commission,
to defend the European values ​​in the Member States and if necessary to impose significant and appropriate sanctions.
Freedom of travel is one of the most precious achievements of European integration. We should not recklessly rely on game. We Liberals are therefore vehemently
however, national governments to give a blank check to the reintroduction of border control.
Thus, the freedom to travel can be experienced even in difficult economic times, and remains,
we call for a consistent continuation and an extension of European exchange programs such as ERASMUS. Young Europeans develop friendships across borders,
form networks and so contribute to strengthening an indispensable part of European
Identity and to combat prejudice in.
We want the conditions for conventional and organic farming
further through market reforms and a consistent reduction of bureaucracy
improve. This includes planning security for farmers through market
Development of the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) and the reduction of distortions of competition within the EU. We will work in the future ensure that EU law consistent 1: 1 is transposed into national law.
Regulation and bureaucracy we want in the interests of the entrepreneurial freedom of
Remove farmers and reduce the direct payments from 2020 gradually.
81

However, capping off a certain number of hectares and digressive design of direct payments, as a function of jobs, we reject. This eventually leads to inefficient operation structures. These instruments do not lead to improvements in the consumer, environmental and animal welfare. They lead to higher costs due to
Evasive reactions, for example, operating divisions and weaken the competitiveness of agriculture.
For a strong Europe, the euro is part of Europe and its institutions. With its 47
Member States currently comes the Euro Europe in the implementation of democracy, rule of law and human rights a fundamental role to which we want to strengthen Liberals continue.
We are committed to ensuring that the Charter of Fundamental Rights will be respected in all EU Member States and wish a speedy implementation of the ECHR in the EU. We are committed to the European Court of Human Rights and
actively support his reform.

From the common currency area for Stability Union
The stabilization of our currency and the fight against the debt crisis remains for us Liberals
also in the coming years one of the major challenges. We know that the stabilization of our currency is not for free. But for us, Europe not only has a price.
But Europe has above all a value for us German. Because we peace, freedom and
Can permanently guarantee prosperity for Germany only and with a strong Europe.
But we also know: All this is available only with a stable currency.
After Social Democrats and Greens in 2003 the Stability Pact torn and thus today
Have triggered the crisis, we have now initiated the turnaround and a new culture of stability
created. To come out of the crisis, we must continue to strengthen Europe - and not weaken Germany. Therefore, the liability volume on the federal budget remains constitutionally
strictly limited and untouched the financial rights of the German Bundestag. Parliament
always has the last word. And that is why we have a pooling of debt by
Euro bonds or a redemption fund prevented. We do not want a debt Europe but
a real stability union.
On the way to the stability union, we have already achieved a great deal. In Fiscal Compact 25 Member States have agreed to introduce national debt brakes and their budgets in order to
bring. And with the European stability mechanisms EFSF and ESM, we not only
Rescue packages for our currency spanned, but also the basis for strengthening the
Competitiveness created in the crisis countries. According to the principle, no power "without
Return "goes with the assistance to the crisis countries also always sustained the obligation
and demanding reforms accompanied.
We want to go on the road to stability union. Because we are convinced that stable households, greater competitiveness and higher growth are the prerequisite for a stable currency. Because the only way Europe permanently outgrow its debt and global competition may consist.
It must not give the impression a world dominated by Germany and dirigiste launched austerity in the EU are leading to resentment and the evocation of old enemy images.
To cope with the financial and sovereign debt crisis, Germany must ge82 its responsibility

rather be and identify solutions. Germany should other EU Member States constructively
stand in the implementation of structural reforms to the side and at the same time for a clever
Use of the EU budget to advertise in order as quickly as possible to economic recovery for all
enable.
For that we enter. For this we to occur.

Solidarity also requires solidity. Structural reforms are displayed. Countries that do not get along without assistance at times must comply with the negotiating with the partners commitments. The pressure for reform must be maintained. There must be no false incentives. Reject a return to the Keynesian policies of the 1970s debt
We vehemently. For liberals, the monetary stability is a prerequisite for sustainable growth in the social market economy. Solidarity also means subsidiarity. The German taxpayers should not be required to finance services,
which go beyond the standards in their own country.
The crisis in Europe began with the breakdown of the EU Stability and Growth Pact in the year
2003. From this experience we draw the right conclusions and set the demanded by our fiscal pact consistently. Only if Europe succeeds in turning away from the debt policy and we continue on the path in the Stability Union, we are creating a reliable framework that creates long-term confidence in the competitiveness, stability and reliability of the euro zone and Europe as a whole. For stable households and sound fiscal policy also includes an effective fight against tax evasion. Together with our European partners, we have a through dissemination of information
Prevent migration of wealth from some Member States.
An independent central bank is one of the most important prerequisites for a stable
Currency. Therefore, we are defending the independence of the ECB against any access. The ECB
remains of monetary stability obliged as enshrined in the European Treaties
is. A state financing by the ECB, and therefore the consolidation of public budgets
by inflation, we reject with the utmost determination.
We managed to come from crisis mode to crisis resolution mode. Us
build on a stability union. For this are suitable regulation of the banking sector
and a bank control essential to enable the real economy according to the principles of the social market economy operate within a clear regulatory framework within the euro zone and can thrive.
We stand for a stability union with solid budgets and finances. A liability union will not exist with us. This would in addition to the unlimited liability of the
Federal budget at any pressure for reform of uncompetitive States are taken.
To the high youth unemployment in some Member States effectively and sustainably
fight, we promote the dual education system. Germany has about seven
Percent one of the lowest youth Arbeitslosigkeiten in the European Union. The
Combination of professional practice and school education is a major export for
the European area and beyond. Government-funded employment programs, as proposed by the European Commission "Youth Guarantee", we deem proper politically incorrect as they are unviable in the long run, only be reached passing fancy effects and exacerbate their spending the state financial crisis.
We want the EU Member States own budgetary sovereignty and the responsibility to
keep careful households in the future. We therefore reject European taxes.

83

A joint and several liability for the government bonds of Member States, as the euro bonds or debts redemption fund, we reject liberals from political, legal and economic reasons, as much today as in the future. Europe has only
a future as a community of shared responsibility in which each shall be liable for his actions. Therefore
We are committed to a European order for insolvency States to the existing
Supplement stabilization instruments. The aim must be, the endless "emergency routine"
replace them with binding rules, which provide all involved with certainty when the
Process begins and that it can be completed quickly and causes a fair balancing of interests with the creditors and the restoration of capital market viability.
The ESM is not a permanent solution. Once a functioning Stability Union with effective
Sanctions for excessive national debt is, the ESM must expire.

84

VII. Peace, thus get more people more opportunities
In Germany today, more people have the freedom to fulfill their dreams and their own
Way to go. This makes us strong and creates prosperity. But Germany must not itself
be sufficient.
Reliable covenants peace order of the UN and a strong Europe have much to
contributed that we live in peace and prosperity in Germany almost self-evident
appears. This is a historic success of German foreign, human rights and development policy. A success that we at the same time order: the freedom and the opportunities that we in Germany
and Europe enjoy today, we want to make it accessible to as many people in the world.
More people are most able to live in their countries in peace, security and prosperity.
This goal we want to achieve through cooperation within proven organizations and alliances. We want to maintain and expand proven partnerships, as well as new partnerships
reasons. Whoever wants to shape globalization, needs strong partners.
We rely on dialogue, partnership and the primacy of political solutions. We stand
the culture of military restraint. Liberal Foreign Affairs, Human Rights and Development Policy
is peace policy. It relies on shared and shared responsibility. Therefore want
we know that international disarmament initiatives still an important place in the German
occupy and international politics. And that's why we invest our development cooperation in more opportunities for the people in our partner countries. We are committed to world
one for the observance and promotion of human rights, for the protection of liberty, democracy
and the rule of law as well as for the protection of progress, based cultural self-determination prosperity and protecting our citizens against global security risks.
Global problems can only meet in global we cooperation. We thus create more
Opportunities for more people around the world. More possibilities for their own life plan and
more opportunities to improve their own living conditions.

85

In responsibility and partnership for more peace in the world
German foreign policy is values-led and interests-based. It is based on historical
grown and proven values ​​communities and she seeks and promotes new partnerships.
Without neglecting the transatlantic partnership or our other established friendships and alliances, liberal foreign policy has laid the foundation for new partnerships.
Emerging countries in Latin America, Asia and Africa are the new powerhouses in their respective regions and beyond increasingly important partner for Germany and Europe -
in trade, but also in addressing global challenges of the future such as climate change, the
Disarmament and the protection of biodiversity. We will continue with our partners worldwide
Tackle issues such as climate change, poverty, terrorism, war, human rights violations and the spread of weapons of mass destruction in the awareness of shared responsibility.
Liberal foreign policy supports the historic political transformation processes in North Africa
and the Arab world with tailored transformation partnerships. We Liberals
want to support these societies towards liberal democracy and market economy. Through numerous projects just wearing also non-governmental organizations help
Enforce human rights to monitor their enforcement as well as human rights and
democratic participation in the awareness of the population and in the state structures to anchor. The observance of human rights and real civic participation are the foundation for the democratic, economic and cultural development of a country.
We focus on the expansion of cooperation within proven organizations. We rely on
Dialogue and partnership. Even where it is difficult. Only dialogue builds trust and the opportunity for peaceful conflict resolution. Liberal foreign policy is peace policy.
For that we enter. For this we to occur.
We stand for deeper integration in the security and defense policy
the European Union (CSDP), by filling the Lisbon Treaty with life and
enter with our European partners in permanent structured collaborations (SSZ). Traditional bonds, we will continue to strengthen, in particular the transatlantic relationship. Common positions within the CSDP are always for orientation represented in the Security Council EU members. In the long term, the EU must
the Security Council of the United Nations have their own seat. Simultaneously
we want cooperation on security issues within the framework of the Weimar Triangle
reinforce with France and Poland. The United States and Canada, but also values ​​Partner
such as Japan and Australia remain our natural allies in solving global
Questions in an international context.
Transatlantic relations are wide and varied. As a strategic objective of
transatlantic cooperation, we are driving the implementation of a transatlantic free trade area in order to achieve and to seek common prosperity gains worldwide
to make it clear that the two global centers of democratic market economy closely
cooperate.
Relations with the new global players, which it by its economic dynamism,
Ascend pursuit of participation and prosperity and its growing political weight to the important centers of power in their regions, we will continue to expand. This is especially true for countries that share our democratic values. Who wants to make, must be willing to talk. To encourage this new power centers to take on responsibility and it is a partnership to integrate into international structures, a central idea of ​​liberal foreign policy.
86

In addition to the continued commitment to the United Nations, NATO, the Euro Europe and the EU, we will also take advantage of the opportunities of new formats like the G20 strengthened.
These formats provide the opportunity to new approaches in international cooperation
bring. Your continued success is the result of implementation of the liability
hang out. At the heart of the reform is a UN Security Council that adequately reflects the new weights in the world of the 21st century for us. We will therefore
continue to work for strengthening and comprehensive reform of the United Nations.
The United Nations is at the heart of a world order that is based on cooperation.
The strengthening of parliamentary cooperation in the UN processes should be sought.
The successful strengthening human presences in Germany in these institutions
We intend to continue.
To accompany the UN climate negotiations, we have liberals in our area of ​​responsibility, the external climate policy as a new focus of German foreign policy
significantly strengthened. This opens up the opportunity for new alliances with global players,
but also with the most affected by climate change States. At the same time we want
the dialogue on the economic opportunities of a low-emission continued modernization
promote and strengthen the communication of energy policy abroad. For this purpose,
we equip the German foreign policy with the necessary resources.
Unlike almost any other industrialized country is Germany on free trade and access to the
global commodity markets depend. German foreign policy will this continue
consistently occur. This also includes strategic partnerships with key
Commodity-producing countries within the framework of a national strategy on raw materials and to further integrate
foreign, security, development and economic policy interests in the field of
Foreign Trade Policy. On the observance of human rights in the commodity-producing countries, we attach great importance.
As an elected member of the UN Security Council, Germany has in 2011 and 2012 significant initiatives, among other things the protection of children in armed conflict, in the current crises in Syria and Yemen, with the statehood of South Sudan and in coping
the stabilization of Afghanistan set. We have this very successful working
shown that Germany is prepared to take on global responsibilities. On too
Has based this balance sheet we the international community for the years 2013-2014 with a
elected impressive result in the UN Human Rights Council.
This vote of confidence it is to be justified by an active, value-oriented and responsible human rights policy. Germany is in addition, as
Troop contributors and donors of humanitarian aid and development cooperation in
The United Nations Framework continue to fulfill its global responsibilities.
We will continue the democratic forces and offers in the area of ​​law building, market access, education in the transition countries of the Arab Spring
Support work. Freedom, human rights and democracy are essential for
political and economic participation of people and thus for the success of
Reform forces. We rely on the support of regional solution efforts. Regional
Cooperation to address common challenges - such as in the context
ASEAN - we want to strengthen and partners collaborate on solutions.
The German involvement in the Middle East peace process, we will continue unabated.
Based on our policy remains the commitment to the destruction of Israel and a two-state solution ausverhandelte.
We advocate strongly in favor of a diplomatic solution to the conflict over Iran's nuclear program in accordance with the resolutions of the UN Security Council. One
nuclear-armed Iran would be a danger, but for the whole world not only for Israel and the entire region.
87

Peace, security and prosperity in Europe, we can guarantee lasting only with Russia. Our cooperation with Russia is now wide and varied. Never before
our economies and societies were so closely intertwined. That is why we observe the restrictions of civil rights by government or
Justice in Russia with concern. Our views on the strategic opportunities of cooperation with Russia is not contrary to an open and sometimes critical dialogue.
Germany and China want to use the opportunities of globalization together. The
Question of how long China brings to the global framework, is always
important. We want a China that its role as a responsible design power
adopts. Our open dialogue with China holds also differences of opinion. Human rights are an important topic of our regular exchanges.
Germany thrives on its openness and networking. I shall also be expressed in a modern liberal visa policy. We support the visa-free regime with Russia,
Turkey and the EU's eastern and southern neighbors, once they fulfill the necessary conditions. Liberal visa policies in advancing together
World needs to make close and not manage separation.
Opposite Belarus we are committed to a coordinated European sanctions policy
against the Lukashenko regime and enhanced cooperation with civil society. Even in the last dictatorship in Europe, people should have the chance to her
Reshape the country into a free and tolerant civil society.
The cultural relations and education policy makes an integral part of our foreign policy are an irreplaceable contribution to the global understanding. We focus
to working with the proven intermediaries such as the Goethe Institute, the German political foundations, educational institutions and communication forums on the rule of law dialogues,
Scientific cooperation in the context of a networked approach and the strengthening of
positive self-representation of Germany abroad. The idea of ​​networking has to
even more mainstreamed into the work of the mediator. At the same time we want the exchange of
Enhance scientists and highly qualified experts even further and our world
than present the open and tolerant civil society, which we are.
Particularly given our demographic challenges, we have to rely on motivated highly qualified individuals from other countries. It is important to promote
German language, which remain at the heart of cultural relations and education policy
must stand. The global cultural presence in Germany through intermediary organizations
as Goethe Institutes and schools abroad to be further promoted. German
German schools abroad are an integral part of the German cultural and educational policy. they are
Ambassador German education policy and play a major role for foreign trade, international relations and the teaching of values. You get therefore
future our full support. We will work for the External Action
Cultural and educational policy financially continue to equip. It is a mainstay of
German foreign policy.

Human rights are the foundation of a free society
Human rights are the foundation for the democratic, economic and cultural development of a country. Only where people can live in freedom, there can be long term hope, progress and prosperity. We consider human rights policy as a cross, all
Policy areas affected and core liberal foreign and development policy.
88

Adherence and strengthening of human rights in Germany, Europe and worldwide is a core concern of our policy. We align our development cooperation towards this goal. Financial contributions for specific countries are systematically subject to compliance with human rights political conditions. We have succeeded in ensuring that access to clean drinking water
and sanitation is recognized by the United Nations as a human right. We have
Criminality close gaps in international law and the International Criminal Court
strengthened. We are engaged occurred for the human rights of lesbian, gay, bi-sexual, transgender and intersex people. Have the Foreign Office and the Ministry of Development
strengthened human rights projects for homosexuals financed abroad. The budget support was for
Deleted States which have adopted criminal laws against homosexuality. Asylum seekers who in
must expect their home countries with the corresponding penalties, will no longer be deported.
And we enter for the free exercise of religion and taking a stand against the persecution of
religious minorities in the world.
The universality of human rights is a guarantee for social peace, personal freedom, safety and economic success. To strengthen you - in Germany, Europe and worldwide -
is our goal.
For that we enter. For this we to occur.
We compete against a cultural relativism concept of human rights and for the effective enforcement of legal state action in international relations
on.
We oppose any discrimination on grounds of religion, ethnic origin, gender, disability, age or sexual orientation. The suppression or
Attacks on other people and some populations are always attacks on
the freedom of the whole society.
We will remain committed to the discrimination of lesbians, gays, bisexuals, transgender and intersex people in the foreign and development policy to oppose and continue the initiated policy in this area.
Freedom of education is the foundation of self-determined action and civic participation, it is a fundamental human right. We stand for freedom of expression, freedom of assembly and freedom of the press.
We are committed to the full physical and mental integrity of people. That is why we are committed in the strongest terms for the universal abolition
the Death Penalty and Torture. In the fight against international terrorism justifies the
End not the means; they must not be accompanied by a restriction of human rights standards. We turn, therefore, against any attempts to restrict fundamental human rights in the name of combating terrorism.
We advocate for the global ban on human trafficking, child labor, forced labor,
Forced prostitution and the use of child soldiers. Because bodily integrity is a fundamental human right. By FGM is in
this human rights of women and girls intervened cruelly. Us
advocate an explicit criminalization of this crime, so that a clear signal
emanates how despicable this crime.
We strive to ratify the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and
Combating violence against women and domestic violence to women affected
an improved victim protection to offer.

89

With ratification of the Additional Protocol to the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, we want to give individuals the opportunity for exploiting the national legal proceedings, in this way their personal rights before
sue an international panel.
Access to clean drinking water and sanitation is an essential
Prerequisite for people's health and for their food security. Therefore, we are committed to a better application of the human right to drinking water and basic sanitation, and support appropriate initiatives at the UN level.
Corruption precludes the enforcement of human rights. Protection of human rights, therefore, also includes the fight against corruption. We advocate for a constitutional ratification of the UN Convention against Corruption.
We want to further strengthen the international criminal justice system - such as the
International Criminal Court. Under the umbrella of the United Nations, we want the international law concept of responsibility to protect differentiate and evolve. This
is among the pillars "to prevent, to react and to rebuild" the strengthening of prevention particularly important.
With the EU accession to the ECHR, we close a gap
the protection of human rights in Europe. We will argue for a speedy implementation of the Accession Agreement. The Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and the European Convention on Human Rights must be respected in all EU Member States, regardless of the political color of the respective national government.
We are committed to the European Court of Human Rights and actively support
its reform. We want to build on our successes of the reform conference in Brighton and will strive for the rapid implementation of the reform proposals.
We want to promote the human rights work of the OSCE and the position of the OSCE Office for
Democratic Institutions and Human Rights (ODIHR) strengthen.
We want to make a contribution to solidarity that Europe in the world is a safe haven for the politically persecuted. That is why we are committed to a Europe-decent control of the basic right to asylum and a European Distribution Key for
Asylum-seekers and recognized refugees - similar to Königsteiner Key in Germany
- on. The aim must not be the lowest common denominator. We want to go in Germany ahead and abolish the work permit of asylum seekers as well as the residence obligation for refugees. Unaccompanied minors should be at least 18 years as
are considered process mature. We are the preliminary injunction in Dublin cases regulated by law so that it complies with the requirement of effective judicial protection and the requirements of the Dublin III Regulation. In the reception of refugees whose plight are
and need decisive and not religious affiliation. We insist that there
in other EU countries are clear and common rules on safe third countries for the repatriation of rejected applicants.
After long 18 years, Germany has its reservations about the children's rights convention of the United Nations finally withdrawn. This is the application of law
under new conditions. We want to take into account the child's welfare more and to revise legal regulations, such as the provisions for entry or family reunification for unaccompanied minors.
In Germany, we want to improve the rights of victims of women and
Check the situation of trafficking undocumented migrants in the area of ​​health and fair pay quickly and thoroughly.

90

Freedom protect, create opportunities - liberal Security Policy
Threats to peace, freedom and security can be in an increasingly globalized world
Narrow fewer regional and put into categories of law. Global terrorist networks, organized crime, local and regional conflicts with global consequences, desertification, lack of clean water, famine and extreme climate changes
- All these global challenges we can only meet global and networked.
We have all the relevant ministries of German foreign policy in the context of a networked approach
better coordinated than it has ever been the case. We adhere to the German Security Policy and
the culture of military restraint firmly. And we have one hand placed the focus on the disarmament and the other hand on a priority civil oriented prevention policy. Where it is still necessary to make our soldiers for peace deserves worldwide. Our soldiers in
Afghanistan we could through a successful change in strategy towards stronger networking
political, developmental and military approaches, a realistic exit strategy
Open for 2014th The handover of responsibility in Afghanistan is running. The deduction German
Combat troops has begun. Even after the complete withdrawal of German combat troops
Afghanistan, we will not let the country down.
Bondage, poverty and lack of opportunity can breeding ground for political extremism and religious
and will be the cause of conflict. By world more people more opportunities for the
Open your own life, we are helping to tackle conflicts at the root, and not their
Symptoms. As more people take more chances worldwide, we make a joint
Contribution to greater stability and lasting peace.
For that we enter. For this we to occur.
The Bundeswehr is and will remain a parliamentary army. Prior to the start of operations in critical areas, the political objectives and timelines, as well as an exit strategy must be clear. These are to be updated for the duration of the assignment.
With the suspension of conscription and the related restructuring of the Bundeswehr
a volunteer army we have set real milestones with respect to the structure and the internal constitution of the Federal Armed Forces. At the same time we are committed to ensuring that the
important work of the Bundeswehr recognition learns in public. The appreciation of the demanding and hazardous service of our soldiers is just for an army in use is of paramount importance. The necessary acceptance in the population we want to, among other things by an appropriate representation in the area
reach.
We aim to further increase the attractiveness of the service. The salary levels, the quality of
Infrastructure, training opportunities, offset frequency, the supply in the event
wounding and the reconciliation of family and service are essential
Factors.
The operational capability of the Bundeswehr must be ensured by appropriate funding. Missions abroad must not be borne by the current budget of the Defense Ministry here.
NATO remains the strongest in the future anchor of our common security policy.
She herself, but also the other major international peace and security organizations (UN, OSCE, Council of Europe Euro, EU) must be continuously in their ability to act
be strengthened. At the same time, we will generally acceptable for the establishment
Norms and rules in the international system and for an even more intensive cooperation
91

Insert in the field of security and defense policy. By creating common structures are long-term conditions for European armed forces
parliamentary control to be created. For this purpose, a common security policy understanding has created a balance and armor political interests be brought about.
Given the complexity of new challenges, we want a permanent switching
set up at the level of the Federal Government for information exchange and the coordination of military and civilian measures in all areas of foreign and security policy as well as to prevent and respond to national and international disasters and crises. The Federal Foreign Office presents itself as a basis for this structure. This
must be ensured and strengthened in addition to the situation analysis of the networked approach while respecting the departmental responsibility. In addition, the parliamentary control must be ensured by the participation of Parliament at any time.
We want a national security strategy as a contribution to an EU security strategy
developing and updating this regularly. Only through the formulation and regular public discussion of such a strategy can succeed in a wide
To create public awareness and understanding of security issues.
In an open and tolerant civil society Security Policy must be more than
a topic for a few specialists. It is true, the political mission of the Bundeswehr
always formulate clear and an appropriate structure and legal certainty for
Derive forces. The protection of territorial integrity of Germany as a must
Order and the division of responsibilities of the Bundeswehr and police remain. We are committed to a parliamentary body with full-scale information right a that controls the decisions of the Federal Security Council - comparable
with the procedure for monitoring the secret services. The arms export report is to be published promptly in future to the period immediately afterwards. Control over the continued detention and the use of exported arms and military equipment must be removed. The arms control is on new technologies of modern
Warfare such as expanding spy software.
Within the framework of civilian crisis prevention and the reconstruction of state structures
after a crisis, we put an emphasis on strengthening the construction of civilian capabilities (administration, judiciary, police). In addition, the instruments of development cooperation, the development of economic partnerships, the police and should
rule of law and the promotion of cooperation of cross-border cooperation to conflict and crisis prevention in the sense of a coherent policy approach to be strengthened.
Our goal is to strengthen the nuclear, radiological, chemical and biological
and conventional control and non-proliferation regimes. The universal application
the international treaty regimes and codes of conduct is our declared goal. Specially
in the context of nuclear arms control we sit consistently for a comprehensive strengthening of the nuclear non-proliferation treaty and for the entry into force of
Test Ban Treaty a. In addition, we want to break new ground, to about
the recent Conventions also advance the global disarmament and, for example, actively for accession by non-signatory states to bioweapons and the Chemical Weapons Ban Treaty advertise. At aimed at the withdrawal of tactical nuclear weapons
from Europe we maintain.
The initiated by us responsible handover to the Government of Afghanistan and
the withdrawal of combat troops in 2014, we will continue. Also on this date
addition, we are the people to build the country within the framework of the Afghanistan
Support development cooperation effectively.
92

Partnership to take responsibility - global development cooperation
We work to ensure that more people can live in the world in freedom and more opportunities
get to unfold. We know who does not know today what he will live tomorrow, which is
not free. Because we rely on the strength of these people, we help them to improve their situation on their own. Because the freedom of individuals and the responsibility for others are inseparable for us. Development policy is also peace, Menschenrechtsund security policy. She is working towards the stabilization of fragile countries and regions, acts
preventively against conflicts and also helps with the fact that people are not driven from their homes
become.
To align our development cooperation in accordance with this principle, we have the largest
Reform in the history of German development cooperation put into effect. By
Summary of the "German Society for Technical Cooperation", the "German
Development Service "and the" International, "the" Germans
Society for International Cooperation ", we have made development cooperation more effective.
Then we do not want rest. We continue to work for more efficient structures in the
Development cooperation, so that every euro achieved maximum effect. With the independent
Evaluation Institute of the German Development Cooperation in November 2012, we have the
Keystone set for this reform. From now on, German development policy is the first time a scientifically based, independent assessment of their activities in order from the
Learning experiences of their work sustainable. This gives us the clout of the German
Considerably strengthened development cooperation and the targeted use of financial resources
allows. Effectiveness and efficiency in development cooperation within the meaning of German taxpayers as well as our international partners.
Effectiveness and efficiency in the development cooperation require regionally differentiated and
country-specific strategies of co-operation with our partner countries and the implementation
integrated development plans, especially in the areas of education, rural development, economy, environment, health and social security.
We have the official development cooperation for China and Turkey set and place
Priorities in development cooperation on 50 countries, rather than to over 120. We have
our cooperation more to the observance of human rights and good governance
oriented and we have strengthened the cooperation with fragile states as a peace investment.
Despite the euro crisis and successful fiscal consolidation, we were able to develop services
Since 2009, increasing by almost two billion euros to around ten billion euros - Germany is now
after the United States the world's largest donor.
Liberals development policy provides the individual man with his abilities and needs
in the center. For us, development cooperation is not a charitable aid, but a
Investment in a better future for the people in our partner countries and in Germany. Liberals development policy is also of values ​​and interests oriented and want to replace the traditional donor-recipient relationship through a partnership of equals. We want to
Developing countries do not provide, but we want to toughen up their own responsibility for themselves
to take responsibility and make provisions. Thereby we create life chances for more people - for
a better, freer and more peaceful future.
For that we enter. For this we to occur.
93

Liberals development policy serves the goal of strengthening global freedom and to allow all people to live in dignity, autonomy and self-determination.
Poverty is lack of freedom. Therefore, the elimination of the causes of poverty is the focus
our development cooperation.
Respect for human rights is and will remain a priority for Liberals. We have with
provided the introduction of a binding human rights control for development projects to the test. We want to apply them consistently in the future, this instrument:
Germany promotes, but we also ask for - more rule of law, greater democracy, more
Market economy and more responsibility.
Liberals development policy relies on a triad of government, business and civil society. The state alone is the development challenges of the future can not cope. This also applies to development financing. German development policy must therefore set the framework so that more private investment and
more civic engagement are possible. Together with the private sector, we want to develop and implement further innovative financing instruments.
The commitment of the German economy is an opportunity for our partner countries.
This collaboration is why we want to expand and gain in particular the German Mittelstand continue as partners in development cooperation.
For us, the effectiveness of development policies is paramount. We are committed
the incoming international agreements. At the same time must the assessment
of public expenditure for development cooperation (ODA), not only by
Quantity viewpoints happen, but also qualitative criteria. Despite our successes in increasing the development budget is not critical how much money
is issued - but how effective are the measures.
We set in the Development Cooperation aware of the broad civic engagement from the mainstream of society. Therefore, we have the resources for non-governmental organizations, the churches and foundations increased. We have the jungle
cleared of programs and created a one-stop shop for all people,
who want to engage in development cooperation. These reforms
we want to double over the next few years, the number of volunteers in Germany.
Liberals development policy consistently responds to the global power shifts.
This means: With emerging markets has the classic pro-poor
Completed development cooperation and transferred to a new form of cooperation
become. With China, we have already taken this step in 2010 and engage in dialogue
at eye level especially in the area continued rule of law.
With the Millennium Development Goals, it is the world succeeded for the first time define a common goal system. However, has this objective System on deficits. The
World Agenda after 2015 will have to overcome the juxtaposition of different objectives and
be tight interweaving of challenges. There are common but
agreed differentiated obligations for developing, emerging and industrialized countries
become.
Within the European development policy, we continue to reform the
GBS one. We want to intensify in the future, the criteria for budget support continues to prevent a blind subsidizing corrupt governments. The
EU should be additionally strengthened in its role of donor coordination. A pooling of development policy, however, we reject. The European Development Fund must also be integrated into the EU budget to make the lack of parliamentary control. We want the commenced reduction of bureaucratic
Continue structures and processes in the German development aid and sit da94

for that also in the European Development Cooperation degraded bureaucracies, streamlined structures and processes are accelerated.
Too often, Africa is reduced solely to disasters, hunger and poverty. We see
in Africa first and foremost an opportunity continent with young, powerful companies.
Today occur in Africa important innovations, economic growth exceeds
in many States, the European level by far. Liberals development policy focuses on
this potential and wants to convey the power of innovation in Africa. We want the same
correct the too negative image of Africa in Germany and the development policy
Reorient educational work accordingly.
Our policy of promoting freedom is counting on the equal access of all
To assist people to economic, social and political participation.
We will work in the future especially for the people in our partner countries, which are affected by exclusion, discrimination and violence. Ethnic
and social minorities deserve our particular support.

95

Index
Rise of social promises
Market economy ................................ 7
Foreign trade surplus ..................... 23
Foreign Policy ......................... 85, 86, 87, 91
Cultural relations and education policy
.................................................. ...... 88
Peace policy .................................... 86
Children's Rights Convention of the United
Nations ......................................... 90
military restraint ........... 85 91
NATO ............................................. 87, 91
strategic partnerships .............. 87
UN CRPD ...... 46
Convention on the Rights of the Child ............... 40
United Nations .............................. 87
networked approach .......................... 91 92
UN Security Council ........................ 86, 87
Values ​​Communities ........................ 86

A
Disarmament .............................................. 91
Agricultural policy ............................................ 22
Agricultural Research .................................. 22
Agriculture .................................. 21
Shareholders ............................................... 20
Shareholder rights ................................. 20
Aging management ........................ 33, 45
Retirement ...................... 12, 18, 20, 35
Work .... 5, 7, 12, 28, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 43,
45, 46, 59, 60, 87, 88, 91, 93
Labor market ..................................... 14, 30
Workers .................................... 13
Jobs .. 11, 12, 13, 15, 21, 23, 30,
32
Federal Employment Agency .................. 34
Entry ............................. 25, 26, 30, 32
Entry Options ...................... 13
Wage labor costs .............................. 30
Wage floor ........................... 30, 31
Additional costs .............................. 25 wage
Itinerant trade ............................ 62
Collective bargaining ............................. 30, 31
Full employment ........................... 8, 12
second chance .................................... 28
Upswing ........................................... 11
Rise ................................. 10, 30, 31, 65
Career opportunities ...................... 13

B
Banks ................................................. .....8th
Bank levy .................................... 19
Banking Supervision ................................... 19
Bank insolvency law ......................... 19
Building societies .................................... 20
Bundesbank .......................................... 8
Deposit Guarantee Fund .................... 20
Cooperative Banks ............... 19 20
Landesbanken ..................................... 20
97

national restructuring fund .... 20
Central banks ..................................... 19
Private banks ...................................... 19
Rating agencies ................................ 19
Sparkassen .................................... 19, 20
Systemic importance ............................. 19, 20
Universal banking system ..................... 19
Disability .......................................... 46
Accessibility ....................... 21, 46, 72
Integration allowance ............................ 35
Education ...................... 14, 25, 49, 65, 66, 76
Illiteracy ............................... 27
BAföG ............................................ 26 29
Educational opportunities ................................ 27
Education Federalism ......................... 26
Education vouchers ............................ 28
Education Package .................................... 26
Germany Scholarship ................ 26, 29
dual training system ................. 32
Excellence Initiative ......................... 29, 67
Fachhochschule ............................ 14, 29
early childhood education ......................... 27
Colleges ................................. 28, 29
lifelong learning ......... 14, 26, 29, 45
Meister-BAföG ................................... 26
private education savings ................ 26, 28
School ........................................... 26, 28
Tuition ............................... 29
Places ..................................... 26
Universities ................................ 14, 28
Training ............. 14, 25, 26, 28, 31
Biotechnology ....................................... 22
Bundeswehr ........................................... 92
Federal-state financial compensation ................ 10
Citizen's Income .................................. 25, 31, 34
Civil society ...................... 44, 46, 56
Citizen participation ......................... 58, 74
Bürgerplenarverfahren ...................... 58
Civil rights ............................... 26, 55, 59
Blocking ....................................... 53
Retention .................. 54
Bureaucracy Reduction ......................... 10, 14, 81
Bureaucracy ............. 13, 20, 34, 37, 41, 81

C
Chances ... 8, 12, 15, 19, 21, 23, 25, 30, 33,
39, 47, 48, 54, 65, 75, 79, 85, 87, 88, 93,
95

D
Privacy ...................................... 54, 55
Data security .................................. 60
demographic change .......... 21, 37, 69
Democracy ............... 58, 60, 77, 82, 87, 94
facultative referendum law ....... 58
Referendum .................................... 58
Referenda .................................. 58
Popular initiatives ................................... 58
Monument ....................................... 72
Germany ... 8, 13, 20, 30, 39, 46, 65, 71,
73, 80, 82
Digitization ......................................... 53
INDECT ................................................ 55
Information Society .................... 53
Net neutrality ............................. 54, 55
Blocking ........................................ 53
Users ................................................. 54
Open Data ........................................... 58
Foundation Privacy ........................... 54
Retention ................... 54
Diversity policies ................................ 44
Diversity management ....................... 33

E
Ehegattensplitting .................................. 12
honorable businessman .................................. 7
Autonomy ..................................... 67
Ownership ......................... 77, 94
Immigration ....................... 33, 37, 46, 47
Immigration Law ........................... 14
Energy .............................................. 15, 73
Bioenergy ........................................... 22
Bundesnetzagentur ............................. 17
DESERTEC ............................................ 17
EEG-market premium ............................... 16
EEG apportionment .................................. 15, 16
Feed ............................. 16
98

Feed-................................ 17
energy efficiency of buildings ..15, 72
Energy Efficiency ............................. 18, 72
EU Energy Efficiency Directive ...... 18
Energy .............................. 18
energy-intensive enterprises ......... 16
Energy market ................................ 16, 18
Energy policy ..................................... 18
Energy Storage ........................... 17
Power supply ........................ 15, 18
Energy revolution ............................... 15, 18
Energy Industry Act ................... 17
Renewables ................... 15, 16
Renewable Energies Act (EEG). 15,
16
Renewable Heat Act .............. 18
Fracking .............................................. 18
Volume Model .............................. 16, 18
Network development ................................... 15, 17
Network development plan ........................ 17
Photovoltaic ....................................... 16
Reserve and replacement power plants .......... 17
smart grids ......................................... 17
Memory technology .......................... 15
Current price ......................................... 15
Current price brake ............................. 15
Supply security ....................... 15
Commitment ........................................... 42
Volunteering ........................................... 42
Volunteer services ............................. 43
Discoverer ................................................. 7
Relief ........................................... 5, 12
Developers .............................................. 24
Development cooperation ... 24, 87, 93,
94
Development policy ....................... 85 88
MDGs ...... 76 94
ODA ........................................ 94
Sustainable Development Goals ........ 76
World Agenda ........................................ 94
Equal Pay ............................................... 32
Inventor ................................................. ... 7
Community property ............... 41
Europe ............................ 79, 80, 82, 85, 88
Debts redemption fund .......... 8, 82, 84
Internal Market ...................................... 80

Charter of Fundamental Rights of
European Union .................. 81 90
Euro Bonds ................................. 8, 82, 84
Europe GmbH ..................................... 56
European Banking ......... 19, 20
European Development Fund ......... 94
European Commission .................... 81
European
Convention on Human Rights ..... 81, 90
European taxes ........................... 83
European Union ........................ 79, 86
European Central Bank (ECB) ............. 8
European Parliament ..................... 80
Euro Europe ...................................... 82, 87
EU security strategy ...................... 92
EU tax ............................................ 11
Fiscal pact ................................ 80, 82, 83
Common Agricultural Policy ................... 81
Convention method .............................. 80
Council of the European Union ............... 80
SGP ......... 83
Stability Union ......................... 8, 82, 83
Subsidiarity .................................. 26, 80
Subsidiarity Court ........................... 80
Independence of the ECB ........................ 8
Referendum ............................... 80
Export ................................................. .... 23

F
Professionals ................................... 33, 45, 47
Skills shortages ............................... 14
Family
Adoption ............................................. 42
Elterngeld ............................................ 40
family benefits ............. 41
Verantwortungsgemeinschaft39, 40, 41,
84
Work-life balance .14,
37, 40
Family ............................ 13
Distance buses ............................................... 68
Financial System .................................... 18, 19
Supervisors .............................. 19
Financial Services ....................... 62
Liability rules ................................... 19
99

Capital market ...................................... 20
Risk and Liability ............................. 19
Risk Management Systems ............... 19
Risk buffer ........................................ 19
too big to fail ...................................... 19
Fishing ................................................. 75
Flexibility .............................................. 67
Refugees ............................................. 90
Asylum ................................................. .... 90
Dublin III Regulation .......................... 90
Refugee protection ................................ 48
Residenzpflicht .................................... 90
Federalism Commission ...................... 10
Research ........... 28, 65, 66, 67, 68, 75, 80
Researchers ............................................. 24
Spirit of research ...................................... 66
Research institutions ................... 28
Advancement ............. 7, 18, 21, 23, 65, 66, 88
Women's Policy .......................................... 45
Liberal professions ...................................... 13, 37
Free trade ......................................... 23 87
Doha Round ....................................... 23
FTAs ...................... 23
FTA ................................. 86
World Trade Organization ................... 23
Freiheit7, 53, 60, 65, 68, 76, 79, 82, 85, 87,
88, 91, 93, 95
Peace ............................ 77, 79, 82, 88, 91

Care ....................... 36, 37
Praxisgebühr ....................................... 36
technical assistance systems .............. 21
Telemedicine ........................................ 38
telemedicine applications ......... 21
Commercial ................................................. 18
same-sex
Partnerships ....................... 12
Equality ......................................... 44
Globalization ......................................... 85
Basic Law ..................... 9, 10, 22, 49, 55
Fundamental rights ..................................... 53, 55

H
Craft ............................. 12, 14, 15, 18
Handwerksordnung ............................ 14
Budgetary policy ........................................ 9
balanced federal budget ........... 8
Debt ........................................ 9
Fiscal consolidation ........ 10, 11, 66
Borrowing .................................. 9
Reduction of debt ....... 9
Black Zero ....................................... 8
sound budgetary .................................... 8
balanced budget in structural ..... 9

I
Industrial ............................... 12, 14, 15, 18
Inflation .............................................. 8, 11
Inflation risk ..................................... 8
Infrastructure ..................................... 67, 72
Airports ............................................ 70
Communications infrastructure ............ 21
Railway bonus .................................... 67
Rail network ...................................... 68
Railways ..................................... 70
Roads ......................................... 68 70
Transport infrastructure ................... 21, 68
Roads ............................... 69, 70
Inclusion ................................................. 27
Domestic policy ............................................ 58
Innovation ............................ 20, 57, 65, 73
Innovation ................................. 14
Integration .................................. 46, 47, 49

G
Intellectual Property ............................ 23, 50
Monetary stability ........................... 8, 9, 83
Municipal finance reform ......................... 58
Generationenbilanz ............................... 76
Cooperative ..................................... 14
Gender equity ..................... 44
Company ........................................... 18
Health ....................................... 36, 38
Drugs ....................................... 36
Post Autonomy ............................ 36
Insurance ................................... 36
Health insurance ......................... 36
Country Ärztegesetz ................................. 21
Care ................................................. 37
Health Care ..................................... 21
100

Work permit .................. 47, 90
dual citizenship ............. 47
Immigrant background ................. 46, 48
Welcoming culture ........................... 47
Internet ................................................. . 67
Investment .......................................... 18

OSCE ................................................. ... 90
Mid ................................................. ..5, 11
SME .... 7, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 18, 21,
24, 94
Minimis limit .................................... 14
Basel Capital and
Liquidity requirements ............... 14
small and medium enterprises ..... 12,
14, 16, 51, 66
Mobility ..................................... 21, 68, 70
Electromobility .................................. 70
Passenger rights .................................... 63
Distance buses ........................................... 68
public transport ....... 69
Speed ​​limit .......................................... 69
Traffic Safety .............................. 69
Monopolies ............................................... 12

J
Youth Policy .................................... 44, 45
Justice ................................................. ..... 56

K
Cartels ................................................. . 12
Children ......................................... 39, 40, 41
Childcare ................................ 40
Children's menu ........................................ 41
Daycare facilities .................. 27
Climate policy ............................................ 73
Concomitant financing ........................ 9, 10, 26
Consolidation ......................................... 9
Cooperation ........................................... 85
Creativity .............................................. 66
Culture ................................................. .... 49
Cultural and creative industries ............. 50
Cultural workers ................................ 24
Art ................................................. . 49
Künstlersozialversicherung ................ 50

Sustainability ......................................... 76
Sustainable development .................... 76
Curiosity ................................................. ..66

L

P

Rural .................................... 21
Agriculture ............................ 21, 22, 81
Noise ............................................ 69
Quality of life ............................ 65, 68, 69
Performance .................................... 9
Aviation ............................................ 69

Packages .............................................. 11
Commuter tax ................................... 21
Perspectives ........................................... 21
Prevention ........................................ 38, 41
Press Freedom ......................................... 55
Private Equity ......................................... 20

M

R

Made in Germany .................................. 20
Media ................................................. . 49
Human Rights 23, 81, 82, 85, 86, 87, 88,
94
Human rights policy ...................... 85

Law ............... 53, 56, 59, 60, 81, 94
Law ................................................. ..55
Legal security ................................. 57
Religious freedom ...................................... 44
Religious communities ........................ 48

N

O
Openness ................................................ 47
public service .................................. 59
Governance ................................ 12, 19

101

Retirement ................................................ 34 , 35
Pension contributions .................................. 30
Compulsory pension insurance for
Self ................................... 35
Pensioners ................................................ 8
Republic of free citizens .......... 25, 39, 65, 67
Commodities ............................................... 23

State budget ...................................... 8
stable households .................................. 8
Stability ........................................... 20, 83
Stability culture .............................. 8, 82
Urban Development .............................. 71, 72
Startups ............................................... ..14
Taxes ............................................. 10, 20
Taxes .............................................. 10
Withholding tax ................................. 12
Relief ................. 3, 5, 10, 11, 12, 16
Inheritance and Gift Tax ........ 13
Erbschaftsteuerrecht .......................... 12
flexible assessment rates ............................... 12
Allowances ......................................... 12
Business tax ................................... 12
Tax law ............................... 12
Half division principle ........................ 10
Actual taxation .................................. 13
Cold progression .......................... 10 11
Group taxation .......................... 13
Aviation tax ............................... 69
VAT ................................. 13
Target taxation ................................. 13
Control brake ..................................... 10
Tax Class V ..................................... 12
Tax revenues ....................... 10
Control system ...................................... 11
Tax Simplification .......................... 11
Current control ........................................ 16
Substance taxation ......................... 12
transparent taxation .................. 13
Corporate tax ........................... 13
Excise ............................. 12
Simplify the tax system ...... 10
Property tax .............................. 12
Wealth tax ................................. 12
Structural reforms ..................................... 9
Subsidy brake ................................ 10

S
Restoration prohibitions .................................. 72
Liabilities ................................................. . 9
Deleveraging ............................... 9, 10
Debt .................................. 9, 10
Debt brake ........................... 10, 82
Debt crisis .................................. 9, 82
Debt policy .................................. 83
Debt ................................... 8
Sovereign debt ..................................... 8
Debt Prohibition ........................... 9
Maritime and inland ports ........................... 68
Self ................................. 7, 13, 32
Security .............................. 79, 85, 88, 91
Bundeswehr ....................................... 91
Extremism ........................... 59, 60, 91
Intelligence services ....................... 59, 60
National Security Strategy ........... 92
Police ............................................ 59, 92
Security authorities .......................... 59
Security Policy ............................... 91
Terrorism ........................................ 59
Waffenrecht ....................................... 60
Conscription ........................................ 91
Solidarity surcharge ............................... 11
Social market economy ... 7, 12, 18, 19, 25,
30, 70, 80, 83
Social System ............................... 33, 34, 36
Bürgergeld .............................. 25, 31, 34
Social elections ...................................... 35
Saving rule ................................................ 10
Thrift ........................................... 10
Sport ............................... 27, 33, 38, 43, 59
Government bonds .............................. 8, 19, 84
State rate ...................................... 10, 11
stable money ............................. 7, 8, 82, 83
Savings ........................................... 8

T
Technology ............................................ 80
High technology ................................. 14
Technology exports ............................ 66
Participation ................................ 46, 49, 86, 95
Telecommunications ................................ 72
102

Telecommunications surveillance ... 56
Animal protection ......................................... 22 74
Animal Health Act ....................... 21
Animal Protection Act ................................ 21
Tolerance ...................................... 44, 47, 77
Tourism ......................................... 21 51
Transparency ........................................... 22
Transport industry ................................. 69

Diversity .............................................. 21, 39
Full employment ............................... 6, 12

W
Growth 7, 10, 15, 18, 23, 30, 33, 65, 66,
76, 82
Daredevils ............................................. 7
Venture capital ................................... 20, 67
Competition ......................... 10, 12, 26, 79
Competitiveness 14, 20, 68, 82, 83
Competition Law .............................. 13
Economy ......................................... 15 18
Foreign Trade Campaign ................. 23
Business Angels ................................... 14
Food industry ......................... 21
Entrepreneurs .................................. 32
Start-ups ........................... 66
Subsidies ................................ 10, 20
Economic policies ................................ 18
Know ................................................. ... 57
Science .......................................... 67
Academic Freedom Act .............. 65
...... Prosperity 7, 23, 66, 79, 82, 85, 86, 88
Housing ............................................. 70
Homeownership ................................... 71
Housing and real estate market ...... 72
Housing market ................................. 71

U
Environment
Federal Nature Conservation Act .................. 22
Emissions ......................................... 73
Emissions trading ........................... 69, 73
............................................. 74 repository
Recycling ....................................... 73, 74
Resources .................................... 66, 73
Environmental policy .................................... 73
Forest Law ........................................ 21
Business Succession ....................... 13
Entrepreneurs ......................................... 13
Company founder ...................... 14
Copyright .............................. 50, 55, 57

V
Venture Capital ...................................... 14
Responsibility .. 12, 26, 39, 40, 41, 43, 73,
79, 80, 86, 93
Consumer Protection ................................ 61
Food Law .............................. 62
Consumers .................................. 18, 22
Consumer Education ........................... 61
Trust ................................... 20, 83, 86

Z
Future ............................................. 21, 73
Future perspectives ............................. 21
Togetherness ........................................ 67

103

On With special thanks to the participants in the Internet debate
www.meine-freiheit.de, the chairman of the FDP Federal Technical Committees
and the program committee for the elaboration of the general election 2013 program under the direction of FDP Secretary General Patrick Döring.
