Federal Elections 2013 program
of Alliance '90 / The Greens

Time for the green transformation

Content
A. partaking. Mixing. Creating the future. Why Time
is that what changes
7
1. It is determined at the time the green transformation
advance
2. Why do we need the green transformation
3. Our goal: a better tomorrow
4. partaking. Mixing. Creating the future - Engines
green change
5. On September 22, GREEN

B. 100% secure energy
1. The future worthy of our passion
2. Continue the energy revolution from below
3. 100% secure energy without coal and oil
Seal 4. Atomausstieg safely and quickly
5. Affordable heat and electricity for all
6. Climate Change ahead - European and global

C. Not Business
1. Green Transformation industry - in Germany,
Europe and worldwide
2. The crisis overcome - through solidarity
and ecological Europe
3. Take the financial markets on a leash
4. strengthen Small and Medium Enterprises
5. There is plenty to do - from people for people
6. Promoting Solidarity Economy
7. Sustainable management instead of blind growth

Households D. Besser
1. Ecological, fair and economically sound:
the green tax policy
2. Strong shoulders provide more than weak:
the green income tax
3. Remove the debt: the green capital levy

2

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

8th
9
12
15
24

27
29
31
33
35
36
39

46
48
54
58
64
67
68
69

74
77
82
82

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

4. Unfair tax Schlup fl Öcher stuff:
green subsidy cuts
5. Another policy is possible: the green
Spending priorities in 2014

E. partaking of good work

83
85

88

1. Good work needs fair wages and safety
2. Good work needs an effective OSH
and strong participation
3. Good work needs Arrivals
4. Good work needs good job placement
5. Good work in new jobs
6. Good work for good professionals

F. partaking of good education

89
92
94
98
99
100

104

1. Renewal of educational institutions
105
2. enable success: good day care centers and schools
107
3. Additions to open in training, studies and continuing education
109
4. Green Science Policy: Freedom and Responsibility 111
5. collective responsibility:
Cancel ban on cooperation
115

G. sharing in social security

118

1. Green basic security
2. Green Bürgerversicherung: equitable financing
the health system
3. Green health policy: local drains and demand,
inclusive and preventive
4. prevention, assistance and decriminalization instead
Continuation of the failed drug and addiction policy
5. Green fl egekonzept: humanely and
supportive
6. Green pension policy: the guarantee pension against
Altersarmut

119
122
123
130
131
133

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

3

Time for the green transformation

H. participation for young and old

141
143
146
146
148

I. A healthy environment and healthy eating for all

153

1. A healthy environment and healthy life
2. Protect the diversity of nature
3. Better living with fewer resources
4. The future of agriculture is green
5. factory farming - no thanks!
6. Stop the Cruelty to Animals

J. Sustainable mobility for all
1. A transport network for all
2. implement the road turn with the energy revolution!
3. the new federal mobility plan with the
Develop citizens
4. make transport safe and quieter

K. consumer protection for all
1. make consumers powerful
2. Stop the rip-off
3. energy at fair prices
4. strengthen consumer rights
5. Healthy Eating Gmo

L. Free and independent media network for all
1. economies and participate in: The future is digital
2. Our responsibility for a spare power

4

140

1. Opportunities for all children
2. space for family
3. Strengthening participation of children and adolescents
4. Space for teenagers
5. participation and self-determination at the age
6. A new generation contract - a new
Living together

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

149

154
156
158
160
163
165

169
170
172
174
175

179
180
181
182
183
184

188
190
192

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

3. strengthen citizens' rights in the digital world
4. Making public: a new media policy
5. strengthen creators, fair balance of interests
negotiate

M. renewing democracy

194
196
198

204

1. Join the conversation are heard in decisions
2. strengthen parliaments, open parties
3. revitalize democracy in everyday life
4. promote commitment
5. Freedom of information and transparency consistently
extend
6. Determined against right-wing, racism and
proceed group-focused enmity

N. strengthen civil rights

205
206
207
209
210
212

218

1. Set security at the service of freedom
2. protect data, secure freedom
3. strengthen the rule of law
4. Non-discriminatory participation permit
5. eliminate barriers - the self-determination of
Strengthen people with disabilities
6. Human nations - with integration and inclusion
7. Pick up refugees and treat humanely
8. provide equal rights - homophobia and transphobia
counter

Create O. equality

219
225
226
228
229
231
232
236

240

1. Equal recognition, equal security,
equal chance
2. assist men in new roles
3. Complete Democracy
4. decide on the body itself
5. outlaw violence
6. European and international policy on women

241
244
245
246
247
249

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

5

Time for the green transformation

P. art and culture be fl ügeln
1. Open the cultural institutions for all
2. justice for all cultural workers
3. A reform of cultural promotion
4. impetus for democracy and human rights,
Sustainability and peace
5. Reminder to keep alive - take responsibility
6. Long life sport

Q. Our policy on the ground
1. housing affordable green
2. Develop the green city
3. More Green in rural areas
4. strengthen municipal capacity
5. encourage regions demand and sustainable
6. Cooperative Federalism

R. Our shared Europe
1. For a European Germany
2. For a democratic Europe
3. For a European energy policy
4. For a social Europe of the citizens
5. For decisions at the right level

S. Our One World
1. The Great Transformation: A world sets off
the way
2. A world of justice
3. A world of human rights
4. A world of peace and the responsibility to protect
5. Stop the uncontrolled and secret
Arms export policy
6. Strong United Nations, strong Europe
7. tackle crises - enable lasting peace

Closing Remarks

6

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

252
253
254
256
259
261
262

266
267
270
272
274
276
277

281
283
286
289
291
292

296
298
301
305
306
309
312
314

319

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

A. partaking. Mixing. Future
create. Why it's time
that changes what
Dear voter, dear voters,
we turn to you with this program. We want you in the
General election on September 22 win over another, for better policies.
We turn to our program to all those who think that
we now need to change something in our society, a
good to provide a secure future. If we stop the climate disaster as far as possible and realize the energy transition, if we want to live in a just and modern society tomorrow, then we can not wait - we must
today act politically.
We Greens have always tried to make policy that
One Day Event thinks since the founding of the Greens in the Federal Republic in 1980 and in the East since 1989/90 as a Green Party in
the GDR and the Alliance 90. We were brave and ambitious
and sometimes we have the possibility wrong. But from our
Mistakes, we have learned our ambition has made us strong
and with our courage, we have advanced the society. Us
wanted to get out of nuclear power, as yet were all mighty atom fans. We fought for organic food, as
yet no wholesalers even thought, these products
. Sale We were feminists, we have lived the quota,
while predominantly male societies ruled that women prefer
looked at the stove. We fought on the side of lesbian, gay,
trans and intersex people, as this socially ostracized often
were. We were in East and West conscientious objectors and
Peace activists, were seen as the Cold War and nuclear arms race as a political necessity. We already showed responsibility for

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

7

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Time for the green transformation

One World, than the mainstream yet distinguished between three worlds, and only the national well-counted.
We invite you today to think beyond us about the day - to discuss with us, what needs to change and where it should go. Germany has on the way to a greener economy
and a more open society quite achieved, but in many
Regard, we have only just begun.

1. It is time for the green transformation
continued commitment
Today, we must change something, so that future generations can decide freely how they want to live. Today we want to change something in order to arrive at an economic way,
all the uses and not just a few - which is built on renewable energy instead of oil, coal, nuclear and gas that protects our environment, rather than destroy them. We urgently need to change anything to the disintegration of our society in indoors and
outdoors, in rich and poor to stop up and down. And today we want to change something, so that we finally live in a diverse society tomorrow, in children, women and men, people
different sexual orientation, different religions, from different cultures or different origins at last
can live equally and have equal opportunities.
We all want to be convinced of the need for change.
Lobbying and patronage interests we are decided to confront and rein in. That is also the task
democratic politics.
Policy needs ideals, principles and values ​​need a traceable direction - but exactly miss, we and many others in this black-yellow government. Without compass There
no orientation, political steps only of short-term political needs and interests of power are dependent.
We turn to this program to all idealists, because
also we believe: a better society is possible. We apply
We use this program to all realists, because we know,
that the best ideals are of little value if we do not according machba-

8th

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Search reindeer proposals to realize it. We put in our
Program is, what ideas, what principles and values ​​Green
Policy guide - and make clear how we translate these values ​​into concrete policies.

2. Why do we need the green transformation
The economic situation is good in Germany at first glance.
Our country has many impressive and technologically strong company, well-trained employees and many creative minds. they
Germany have, especially on the export success, better than many
other states brought about by the financial and economic crisis.
But this economic success is not sustainable, because our
Economy still far too much contributes to the destruction of the natural foundations of life. The production of our food,
our phones, cars, clothes or furniture is still connected to huge emissions and resource consumption. The earth's climate is heating up continues on unabated. The will of anyone
more seriously disputed. The consequences of climate catastrophe
now reach us in part, not only in Australia and the
North Pole. Take already droughts, storms, extreme heat and
Cold periods, now flee annually worldwide million
of people from the effects of catastrophic climate change. The
Consequences of this development will soon be even more noticeable. Us
go still wasteful of raw materials to the presence of which is limited and their degradation poisoned the rivers, the earth
contaminated, contaminates the air and people selling off their land. People in many countries around the world through our lose
Lifestyle their livelihoods, they build on their fields feed soy to our meat consumption, they work under terrible
and hazardous conditions for our cheap clothes. Even children
labor under appalling conditions for our consumption. Forests are cleared, overused soils, biodiversity is shrinking
at breakneck speed. So we have our wealth is undermining its own
Fundamentals.
Our economic success is not sustainable, because the one-sided
Export orientation to massive imbalances in the Euro-

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

9

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Time for the green transformation

Union has helped, and because the imbalances in our society have become bigger. The income and
Wealth gap has been getting stronger. While some
Retract few high profits, more than any / r five employees working clearly for a low-wage, of which 6.8 million under
8,50 Euro. Although more and more people in work are still rising poverty. 10% of households in Germany have
far more than half of the total net assets. The bottom 50% of households in Germany have together watching
even 1% of the net assets. In the last ten years is the
Grown public debt to 800 billion euros
- The unequal distribution of private property on the other hand has almost
five to over ten billion euros more than doubled. Dilapidated schools, closed pools, disused railway stations, missing
Kita-places, too little all-day schools - in most municipalities
lack of money for our public institutions. This development
provides the cohesion of society in question.
We damage our future if, as in a rich country
Germany more than 2.5 million children and young people in poverty
grow. Not only that, their career prospects are poor.
In Germany opts usually already with the birth,
whether a child later high school or a high school diploma at all makes,
whether it has a chance of finding a training place for an independent life in dignity. The sad truth is: Poverty is inherited in
our country. Our children should have a better life. Today
hope many that it does not go to them at least worse.
It is no less scandalous that parents still one
Need child care space to fight if they want to, and a
need. There is still much too little all-day schools
and good, all-day kindergartens in Germany. For decades, we talk about the work-life balance for decades doing far too little. Freedom of choice in childcare
There are only for those who really, who can afford it.
Family is where children are. And family is of course
where people for one another, and to assume responsibility for each other. Children need parents and people who
love. And it must be regardless of whether the parents lesbian, heterosexual or

10
Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

gay are. The ideological refusal of the adoption law
and marriage for same-sex couples is discriminatory and
must be overcome. It is unworthy that the necessary
Modernize the Federal Constitutional Court and is not driven by the Parliament.
Women and men are still not equal in Germany. Women are paid less, for comparable
Activities, and get more rarely in management positions. A lot
they are more likely than men to low wages and in unsafe
Employment busy that offer no room for an independent hedge; They are therefore often of
Altersarmut threatened. And they carry the majority of domestic
Care work and child-rearing. Here for years doing little.
Even a woman as chancellor does not make good gender equality policies.
It is appalling that a right terrorist group over ten years, driven by a blind hatred of everything that is not
its crude worldview corresponded, with bombings and cold-blooded killings could roam freely through our country. That
Confidence in our security agencies is deeply shaken. Real
Consequences of this state failure were still
not pulled.
It worried us deeply that under Merkel's leadership, the Europe of nation states at the expense of the European Community
was reactivated. With the motto "In Germany being Europe is to recover" endangers the coalition Angela Merkel not only the
further integration, but also the peaceful coexistence in the
EU. With the national focused look black and yellow has under the
Guise of austerity diktat in a few months for decades
built cornerstones of peace project EU - such as trust, solidarity and unity in diversity - brought to falter.
We think that this can not go on like this. We want to strengthen our democracy and civil rights. We want a common
create change towards a green economy and society,
the not at the expense of the planet, on rising generations
or economically weaker people in other regions
goes. A green transformation that strengthens confidence in state institutions again.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

11

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Time for the green transformation

Germany has all the means to do that: the people,
the technologies, the knowledge.
And also the will. Because the company is further than Merkel
and her cabinet would have us believe. The vast majority
want it just goes on in our society, that more participation is possible and that we finally responsibility for our
Take future. The majority of citizens has
long understood that we have to deal gently with our natural resources that we have a new social balance
and you need a genuine participatory promise that we maintain our democracy and it must but do something.
But these social majorities precludes a black and yellow coalition, whose Chancellor protects clients interests,
instead to stand on the side of change. So we transform
finally the social majority into a political majority.
Another, a better policy is possible!

3. Our goal: a better tomorrow
We can work together to create an economy that creates quality of life for all, without destroying the environment, nature and our natural resources. We can share a fair
Creating society in which no one is excluded from education
and work and a life of dignity.
With the energy turnaround, we assume a global pioneer
role. So that we can show in Germany that a successful
Industrial nation can create the transition to a climate-friendly energy supply. We can the faltering international
So completely give new impetus to climate change and avert the threat of global warming yet. At the same time innovative entrepreneurs can use these policy frameworks to create hundreds of thousands of new jobs and old dependency on imported
expensive raw materials such as coal, oil and gas are eliminated. This saves
a lot of money and makes clean our production. The new clean
Energy is of many small businesses in Bürgerhand
generated not only by a few large corporations, which today
change brakes, because they want to sell us expensive electricity,

12

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

without fear competition must. We draw finally the consequence that the natural resources are limited and
a power supply of the future should not be based on coal and oil - and certainly not on nuclear. The resource hunger
Industrialized and emerging countries is partly responsible for the conflicts on our planet. Equitable access to energy and the use of natural resources is an active peace policy, as well
such as the replacement of finite resources by renewable.
The economy that we need is to create wealth for all. We are committed to a sustainable economy as a model. So far
our economy is almost exclusively based on their growth
assessed. The fixing of politics and the media alone to the gross
domestic product (GDP) has misled us. About the most important
Things that make life worth living, the GDP tells us nothing.
Is growth bought with environmental destruction and injustice,
it can make us even poorer bottom line. Therefore need
we have a new yardstick for prosperity and quality of life - a new indicator of prosperity, which includes the social and environmental dimensions of prosperity with. We want an economy
which represents the people, not markets in the center.
We have it in your hands to make our society so,
that all people can meet to share in her that arm and
Empire not unattainable far apart, a few not
at the expense of many, and all access to resources
have a self-determined life. We want that everyone
Man can develop according to their abilities and potentials
- In good daycare centers and schools, and not dependent on purse
Parents. We want a society of solidarity, in the strong shoulders bear more than weak. But we also give clear information,
how we intend to use the funds to achieve good public institutions, all of which benefit. We work so on
a social and ecological refoundation of our market economy. We must finally create clear rules for the financial markets. Good
Work, good wages, more say the employees - all of which can
and must contribute to economic and social success.
We want to live in a modern society are equal in human and equal opportunities and possibilities
have - women and men, people with disabilities, refugees

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

13

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Time for the green transformation

linge, people from different backgrounds and different
Age, people of different faiths and of different sexual orientation. We want our democracy to revive so that
In addition to the elected parliaments especially the citizens and
Citizens a say - and not strong lobbies, for the common good is not a criterion.
We want a respectful relationship with nature, protecting the biodiversity, the soil, the air and the water. We want
a natural forest management. We want an agriculture that
is no longer influenced by animal tormenting factory farming and greenhouse meat and milk production. We want informed consumers with secure rights
- No food or privacy scandals in series.
We do not direct our policy of according to directions. Neither West nor East and North and South may be pitted against each other. Grabbing the problems where they exist.
Our goal is to equal opportunities, options and similar
Living conditions in all regions. Also therefore it requires
over 20 years after the peaceful revolution of solidarity between the East and West German countries. We can even today
learn a lot from each other and develop together. Green politics thinks and acts locally. Towns and villages
central places of public coexistence. It is time that
municipalities be restored to the situation, their tasks
to perceive, because coexistence and democracy get her face here.
We want a European Germany - not a German Europe. The Federal Republic has the coalescence of Europe
benefits like no other country. But the crisis has shown,
that Europe needs reforms. We are sure: the big order
To make challenges, we need more Europe. However
we also need a different Europe: a Europe that is making each other more youth unemployment and poverty,
together the way towards the renewable energy goes, the
Refugees protects instead of lethal Europe's borders
Upgrade walls. A Europe with common social standards
and more cooperation in tax and financial issues. We need

14

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

a democratic Europe of citizens rather than a Europe of governments, administrations and expertocracy.
We stand for a policy that thinks globally and acts. Our ambitious domestic reform agenda is accompanied by
a global thoughtful policy. Protecting the climate, the conservation of natural resources and biodiversity is there
only globally. Our goal is to implement human rights, poverty
reduce to secure peace and gender equality and
To promote democracy.
We believe that many think in Germany so, maybe even
most. But to arrive at this goal, we need to
change much. And we will soon have to do, because a wrong
Economy and an unjust society ver causes
Damages beyond repair. We believe the green
Change is the right way to this better tomorrow.

4. partaking. Mixing. Creating the future
- Engines of green change
Towards an improved policy can partake people. Because only those who are part of this society, who has access to public goods, is
not suspended and can live independently. Better policy needs people who interfere and does not understand this
as a disruptive factor. Towards an improved policy looks ahead and creates the future
- alredy today.
Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future - this is the direction of the
green change. Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future - these are
both its engines.

Partaking: your voice for justice
Let us create a green convertible for more social participation! Participation is a basic condition for Justice: participation in the labor market, participation in education, participation in social security,
Participation in a health and care system that no differences between the people and their income or their
Origin makes - participation but also to economic development
and economic success.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

15

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Time for the green transformation

A policy of participation requires not only a decent
Basic security renewing and strengthening our public
Institutions. We want to return to the public:
public places, spaces and networks. Whether Kitas or schools,
Colleges or vocational schools, hospitals or nursing homes, job centers or employment agencies, public spaces or
Community centers, youth and cultural institutions: Everywhere
decides whether participation is possible. The renewal of all these
Public institutions need higher quality, opening for all
and better investment opportunities. We accurately describe in the chapters of our program, such as the renewal of these places,
May look rooms and networks. Here, we are investing money - and
especially our ideas.
We want an inclusive society in which it is normal to be different, in which all have access. Regardless of gender, sexual identity or origin, age, or parents' home,
physical or mental health: We break down the barriers.
We want a society in which everyone equal freedom rights, participation opportunities and possibilities of a self-determined
Have life and are desired. Whether school or the labor market, neighborhood or cultural institution, or health care:
Our goal is a permeable society that degrades blockades,
will be rewarded in the effort and nobody through locked
Doors and glass ceilings will be thwarted and excluded.
Partaking - that needs a solid and solidary financing basis, in which the stronger shoulders carry more than the weaker. Therefore, the little income to reduce burdens and higher
be more involved. We want to low- and normal earners relieve by a higher tax-free subsistence level
and stabilized contributions for sickness and care by a citizens' insurance. Heirs to a higher contribution to the financing
make education and culture in the countries. Earnings from investments to be taxed again as high as merit
from work. And we want a property tax for the richest
Percent of the population, which serves to the financial crisis
ablate huge increase debt - so that our taxpayers' money not for the interest repayment, not for paying interest,
but for more participation and better public goods for all

16

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

can be used. Based on our financial and fiscal reforms that we propose in this program, is a
transparent financial and budgetary policy, the total load the
the citizens and the companies noted. Scale for the development and implementation of these reforms were and
are justice and efficiency and the maintenance of
operational investment capacity. Along these standards have
we developed our financial and fiscal reforms and
It will be reviewed and continue to do so.
Partaking - this applies not only within Germany, but
also in Europe and worldwide. We want Europe to contribute to a funding basis for participation by a European
Tax pact to close down tax havens and to exit
Tax dumping.
Partaking - that is only possible with fair wages and good working
for all. That is why we want to curb precarious employment,
Replace mini-jobs, prevent the abuse of temporary contracts and work and strengthen the system of collective agreements.
Partaking - that needs a fair distribution of income
and assets. A society with great inequality can
do not use their potential - it loses the support of its members and thus the glue that holds them together. Our society
must benefit from the economic development again, not
only the top 10%. In addition to taxes and social security is needed
for a different economic policy which pushes back the dominance of individual actors.
Partaking - that means in the 21st century also, access to
to have fast internet. Social and economic participation
depends not least on the broadband internet access. We want
ensure by law that every / r on fast Internet partake
can.
Partaking - that takes a non-discriminatory social climate in which all people get their chance and
can bring. We want our immigration society so
make that people from different backgrounds can live together on an equal footing. We want a modern integration policy that recognizes that any naturalization is a success.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

17

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Time for the green transformation

Partaking - that also aims at equity between the sexes. Sexism and discrimination against women are in
many cases still sadder everyday. We make the scandal concludes that many women still do not have economic independence, that the poorer career prospects and
must accept lower wages in purchasing. For this we need a
Equality Act for the private sector, a pay equity law, a quota in supervisory boards and a legal right to
a full-day child care. We also want to transform the Ehegattensplitting in an individual taxation.
We make the society a political majority:
for good public institutions, for a more equitable distribution and
a social security system that truly deserves its name.
For a just society, on the part of all.

Mixing: Your vote for more participation
Let us create a green transformation towards more democratic participation! Get involved! This was our credo in our party's foundation in East and West. And intervention needs our democracy today. We know what people's movements via
fixed structures and party lines to reach across. We want to make our policies the mixing easier.
Democracy is one of the most valuable thing we have. And that is why we want to revive, give her new strength. This is only possible,
when the citizens can bring and their
make democratic rights. We describe in our program, as a new democratic culture can look like.
We are committed to a policy of listening and making Audible Mitentscheidens, is desired in the intervention and policy
Reasons of their actions reveals and puts up for discussion.
Mixing first requires new participation opportunities. We create more citizen participation in the planning process
and better opportunities for citizen initiatives and referendums.
The introduction of the European Citizens' Initiative, for example,
a big success. We also call for, when it comes to our heart's desire, the new climate-friendly energy supply. Intervention is desired, although we GREEN then every now and then the
Wind blows in the face.

18

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Who wants that people interfere and can actively shape the change that needs not only to the process
files, but also create the conditions for mixing.
Mixing - the need, for example, strong communities and local participation. People are committed and competent - just
where they are at home, in their community: parents initiatives
go ahead with self-managed nurseries and show how urgently
necessary is the care of under-threes; Citizens
and citizens who "make nuclear phase itself" the energy and the
Provider change because it precedes them too slow; Sports clubs, showing the policy that a new relationship sometimes as
easy to implement.
Mixing - but that is also the barriers to participation
to eliminate. We want all those who have a say,
which have long to live here, and this change the electoral law. Our democracy should anyone because of race, color,
sexual orientation, gender, disability, religion and belief or age marginalize. Therefore, mixing is also,
Youth opportunities for democratic decision
Open. We want to lower the voting age to 16 years.
Mixing also means that people must not be simply excluded from their right to vote because of a disability.
Mixing - but that also does not work without fair representation. We fight for an inclusive democracy, can have a say in all and join in. That is why we argue for a
fair democratic representation. In the parliaments, in the
Administration, but also within the parties. We need parties,
which open to the citizens back. We need
strong parliaments and transparent governance. For example it is unacceptable that German arms to the whole world
sold - without sufficient parliamentary and civil society monitoring.
Mixing - that is, to have the freedom to do so. The degradation of our citizens' rights must stop. Safety is guaranteed, freedom belongs to more than ten years the limitation that
made under the impression of the terrorist attacks in the US
were strengthened again. We want an open society, in the
People do not have the feeling to be monitored -

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

19

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Time for the green transformation

whether by the State or by companies increasingly. Of the
Protect our privacy, and strengthening the informational
Self-determination are therefore all the more fundamental in the 21st century.
Mixing - the lives of mature consumers. Us
need finally a consumer policy which protects our rights. Because we can only have an influence when we know
what's in it, whether in the food or in the insurance package.
Mixing - which must also apply to the world of work. Workers are not machines and
not a cost, but the most important productive force, which we
have. That is why we want to strengthen their rights, promote their ideas and commitment.
Mixing - ie for us, chose the form of right-wing extremism and groups each focused enmity
counter. The NSU murders and especially the scandalous
Handling of the constitutional protection authorities, police and the judiciary in the
Show awareness of how much is still to be done. This immense
Damage, we need to fix and create confidence again. Us
strengthen the resistance against the Nazis with all legal means, and raise our voices even when racism or
Antisemitism from the mainstream of society come.

Mixing - ie for us to create an open society in which each and every one without discrimination, without fear of oppression - be it by the state, by human rights and anti-democratic movements, by private institutions, by
his own family - to live, work and act.
Mixing - ie to use the investment opportunities of the Internet and make it accessible to all. We rely on
the new digital ways to get more involvement and more
Establish transparency.
Mixing - ie the decision-making structures on
international level to make fairer. We therefore want the
United Nations as an international organization with the most
Democratize further legitimacy and strengthen the International Criminal Court and international criminal law.
Let's wish from social reality: for more
Participation opportunities for equitable representation and for

20

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

a new policy of listening. For a democratic society,
in which intervention is worthwhile.

Creating the future: your vote for a better tomorrow
Let us create a green transformation for a better tomorrow! Sustainable management does not consume, and can grow - do not live by the substance, but from the proceeds. Meanwhile, we do not know that this slogan long,
must be restricted to the ecology.
Creating the future - that is, first of all, create the energy turnaround. We achieve 100% secure energy - without nuclear, coal and
other fossil fuels. For this we want to reform the law on renewable energies (EEG), free of expensive industrial subsidies and thus make electricity prices more social. We must
organizing the electricity market so that it supports the transition to renewable energies, so that it continues to operate when coal and nuclear are finally gone. We want
Making Germany the brakeman for leadership on climate change
- Here, in Europe and the world. We want a climate change bill,
so that there is energy security and predictability. We care
Also ensure that the energy transition in the transport policy
arrives. With the right of way for pedestrians, bicycle, electric drive
and rail transport, we offer a new, sustainable mobility for everyone - independent of fossil fuels and free of
Noise that makes us sick.
Creating the future - that is, the economy, a green direction
give. We are facing a gigantic reconstruction of our industrial society to an ecological, so slight and resources
low-emission economy. This requires a new
Framework, the environmental guidelines and policy objectives of social justice, a sustainable economy and balanced
Puts public finances. We can reduce our dependence on the world market, using scarce resources less,
Reuse and by cheaper and more environmentally friendly
Replace raw materials. Thus we contribute to a sustainable and equitable global development.
Creating the future - that is intergenerational equity: We
Youth want to participate actively and need equal opportunities for

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

21

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Time for the green transformation

Beginning to old age. With many different promotion schemes, a better and more socially just education system and policies that
Opportunities always keeps in mind, we are creating a future,
in each / r has the same opportunities, from the social
Opportunities to profit.
Creating the future - to put on education and science that is for us. Are of a sustainable education Republic
we still far away. A good education and science system
is a prerequisite for addressing the major social, environmental and economic challenges. A sustainable
Society and green economy needs the knowledge and creativity of their people requires well-trained professionals and
Graduates, lifelong learning and innovation and know-how from science and research as well as the
Courage of women entrepreneurs and businesses to implement sustainable innovations in the economic practice
Creating the future - that is, support families. Families take over key social responsibilities - the responsibility
for children, but also the responsibility for dependent persons. This applies to all families; whether homosexual or heterosexual, whether married or not, whether Patchwork or a single parent.
Therefore, must finally be assimilated to all the families. We found that all lived family models under the protection of Article
6 Basic Law include. We also want to ensure that
all families get the support they need so that
Perceived as an enrichment for children family and society
and are raising children does not become a burden. This is the
Ensuring childcare as important as the realization that family also takes time, which must be protected.
Creating the future - that is, promoting the work of the future,
equitably between the sexes. With a third, a green industrial revolution, and with more work by people for people - whether in education, health, care, or culture
- We create the jobs of tomorrow, thereby ensuring prosperity and social participation for all. The work of the future is a fairer distributed work. We want an inclusive society in which
not one hand people without living wage in social
Standing on the sidelines and on the other hand underemployed "Burnout" a

22

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Mass phenomenon and many little time for family or
social responsibilities remains. We will develop new models, as
we may agree to work better in the future time to enjoy life and time with each other.
Creating the future - that is, affordable housing for all. If
speculative rents be curbed, the expulsion of many
Households are prevented from their neighborhood. Energetic
Building renovation must be promoted properly and uninterruptedly
become.
Creating the future - that is, provisions. This applies in budgetary policy, in which we particularly with the capital levy to
want to pay off huge debts. This applies to the labor market policy, in which we age and conditions for
want to enforce age-appropriate working conditions, so that the
Employees can work healthy until retirement. This applies in the
Pension policy, in which we want to return with the guarantee pension for future generations confidence in the pension system.
This is also true for health policy, the focus on prevention
and must not only cares if we're already sick.
Creating the future - that is, preserving the environment. We need
more protected areas for biodiversity and a new Animal Welfare Act. We need an agriculture without genetic engineering and without
industrial animal production. Animal welfare rather than en masse - so we create the future for humans, animals and also for the environment.
Creating the future - this is only possible with Europe. Our common Europe. Therefore, we strengthen democracy, solidarity,
Soundness, sustainability and human rights in the EU. This
we argue for a socio-ecological reconstruction of Europe, rather than just
to put on one-sided austerity policy in the crisis countries. We want
a banking union and an independent banking supervision. We complement the economic and monetary union to a political union,
thus dictate not only the financial markets, what works and what does not
goes. And we want a strong European Parliament that ends the backroom politics of Frau Merkel and transparency introduces lobby interests.
Create future - we can only do if we all the
Have the world in view. Our One World. Therefore, we want the great
Transformation towards a peaceful, equitable and sustainable

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

23

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Time for the green transformation

Globalization ahead. That is also the promise of 0.7%
of gross national income for development cooperation
employ, as serious as the civilian crisis prevention,
in which the concept of responsibility to protect is being implemented. That
but is also introducing a new control law to guard against
Use arms exports and with a new control law
to limit the export of arms from Germany.
Acting now for a better tomorrow! This is our answer
the Merkel coalition, which completely against the energy turnaround
Wall moves, the rescue of the euro are only postponed, the growing
Poverty and inequality simply ignored. Rather than tackle challenges and to provide the economy finally a new, future-proof foundation, wrong decisions are made
pushed or problems on the back burner.

5. On September 22, GREEN
Dear voter, dear voters,
it is time that changes what. Instead we need a new social division together. Instead of insane capitalism
regulation of financial markets. Instead of old growth real quality of life. Instead of a standard market democracy democratic renewal, in which people have something to say and
can make the policy. Instead of a backward roll safe
Energy policy and the preservation of our livelihoods. Instead of a globalization at the expense of the poor social and sustainable global economy.
Who chooses GREEN, agrees for a way out of the crises. With
Compass and values ​​and realistic solutions. Our Green Prime Minister Winfried Kretschmann and many other GREE-NE in
Responsibility in the countries and communities to show what GREEN
, when GREEN ruled. And our top candidates
Katrin Göring-Eckardt and Jürgen Trittin are committed: Realism
and foresight, rooted in clear values.
Schwarz-Gelb operates in time for the election campaign announcement pure politics, is in truth but with his policy towards a real minimum wage, against a binding quota for women, history

24

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

gen a firm energy policy and against the actual
Equality of same-sex partnerships. This is
the conservative-liberal government against the social majority in
this country. That's why she belongs also replaced.
We are fighting for our own ideas and content. Us
fight in this election campaign for strong green in a
Government coalition with the SPD, because we see in this coalition the best chance to implement the green shift.
In this federal election is not about a direct election of
Chancellor or the Chancellor. It's not about the absolute majority
a party. It's about what coalition the next four years
Germany ruled. We want to reach the green with a red-green coalition changes. Red-Green is the alternative to Merkel coalition.
Coalitions are not a matter of color or ideology. Coalitions are alliances on time to implement common objectives.
Only those who want to go with us GREEN in the same direction, but who
will allow the green transformation, with which we can govern,
with which we want to form a coalition. Who go in a different direction
wants, with which we can not govern and with whom we do not want
coalesce.
And there can not be overlooked: the CDU and CSU thwart the energy
turn. The Union is opposed to a statutory minimum wage, against
greater involvement of the rich in the financing of our
Commonwealth. It stands against the equality of women and
the full equality of gays and lesbians. Time and again the Union operates campaign with resentment
policy towards minorities and against a modern immigration. The CSU is open hostile to Europe. CDU and CSU block
green convertible.
The Left Party makes dubious social and fiscal promises, so that the breach is inevitable. She leans
compliance from the enshrined in the Basic Law debt brake.
The Left Party refuses any international responsibility and
even the debates on UN-mandated peacekeeping missions abroad. In the deepest crisis of the European Union it is
off, stoking moods and refused solidarity. The left
is away from the green transformation.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

25

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Time for the green transformation

The FDP represents absurdly the clientele interests of some
fewer. They want to abolish the EEG, it denies itself a solidary tax policy, rejects minimum wage is against the
Women's quota. The FDP is a challenge to the green transformation.
For us it is clear: The central themes - in the energy transition,
in an equitable tax policy, in a modern society policy - there are similarities with the SPD in addition also differences. Sometimes the SPD is not a mover, but a brakeman. Just
with strong Green is a partner for the green transformation
be. Therefore, it needs strong 2013 GREEN.
Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future - which together
the foundation for a green transformation in politics and society -
for social justice, for more democratic participation,
for a better tomorrow.
Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future - which describes a
new route from the crisis and the departure towards an open,
modern society and an economy that handles better and more economical with our natural resources.
Select GREEN. For more justice. For more participation.
For a better tomorrow.

For the green transformation.

26

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

100% secure energy

B. 100% secure energy
As we lead the energy revolution to success
When we are in 1980 for the first time competed for the parliamentary elections, we called up all the other parties to phase out nuclear power and a shift in energy policy towards the sun, wind, water and energy efficiency. At the time, these ideas were
dismissed as "Spinnertum".
Today, a generation and two nuclear disasters at Chernobyl and Fukushima later, the nuclear phase-out to a large extent
Reality and the entry into the energy revolution succeeded: Of the 26
Nuclear power plants, the beginning of 1990 in East and West Germany
were in operation, running only nine. The Bundestag in June
2011 by a large majority the final phase out nuclear power by 2022
decided. This contrasts with the introduced under Red-Green
Success story of renewable energy: They grew by 5%
in 1998 to 25% today, making them the second most important
Become power generators. This is a key success green policy.
Each ongoing nuclear plant remains a threat. Therefore, we want to
increase the safety requirements both nationally and internationally,
enforce appropriate additions of nuclear power and so the
Change framework, so that the last nuclear power plant operators
Switch off well before 2022nd We also want the bilateral
Enhance cooperation in nuclear safety and involve citizens in Germany to nuclear power plans in neighboring states.
We want the energy turnaround from the test case to the success model. But the completion of the energy transition does not happen
alone: ​​CDU / CSU and FDP provide daily proof that the
Operate expansion of renewable energies reluctantly. With
exuberant industrial privileges they undermine the ecological transformation of the economy and the burden on consumers
and consumers with unfair electricity prices. Schwarz-Gelb would
make the nuclear phase obviously prefer to undo. Assisted they will be supported by relevant Lobbyorganisati-

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

27

Time for the green transformation

100% secure energy

tion with multi-million dollar advertising budgets who want to bring the expansion of renewable energies to a standstill. But in society
there is a broad consensus which is contrary to this interest.
Most people want the last nine nuclear power plants will soon be switched off and the phasing out of
Coal occurs. We have the age of renewables
Ushered energies and now the energy revolution with passion, enthusiasm and creativity must be pursued - also
globally. The aim is to provide affordable energy for all,
for without that - as usual - Kids nuclear waste, a climate catastrophe and ecological debt get saddled.
But are only Alliance '90 / The Greens.
And we want the success of the energy transition worldwide. For the
Response to energy poverty and a global demand for energy is growing renewable energy for all in connection with energy efficiency and energy saving. The path away from fossil fuels
and Atom is also forward-looking peace policy. Germany
has his responsibility as a role model for a climate-friendly
global switch to renewable shall be fair and reliable partner in the fight against energy poverty. That's why
We have solutions for the energy needs of the cities co-develop and also decentralized approaches for rural areas
ahead. The German energy turnaround is in the global spotlight. If it is successful, other important
States join our example and give rise to a new global climate policy dynamic.
Together with the citizens, we want to
Energy policy lead to success. This also brings a breakthrough in the fight against global climate change with it - because
Germany is regarded internationally as a test case for whether climate protection and renewable energies with economic reason
can be connected and with profit.
We want the success of the energy transition, because we so future
create. We want to leave a good legacy to our children -
a power supply free of nuclear dangers and harmful
CO2 emissions, a future without climate catastrophe, leading to millions of climate refugees.

28

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

100% secure energy

We want the success of the energy transition, because the energy from
the hands of corporations migrates into the hands of citizens. To
can finally all get involved and participate in the care of our society with energy.
We want to because they only secures lasting success of the energy revolution social participation in the energy supply. While the
Rising prices for coal, oil and gas continually sends the sun
no bill. In order to coordinate the energy transition better, we make ourselves strong for an extension of competence of the Federal Environment Ministry at a environmental and energy ministry.
Renewables, nuclear phase, grid expansion and electricity market reform are finally thought together.

1. The future worthy of our passion
Especially in the industrialized nations is based the daily life since
more than two centuries on the use of coal, oil and
Gas. Currently, the share of renewable energies in electricity consumption is just under 25%. Already in 2030 we want our current
renewable produce 100%. In building and heating sector
We aim to switch if possible by 2040 is approached. For this purpose we want
by 2022, if not later than the last nuclear power plants from the
Network go, cover at least half of the power supply from renewable energy sources.
That 100% energy supply from renewable energy sources a
represents technological challenge is clear to us. But we
rely on the passion and creativity that technological innovation brings forth - and as in many companies, to
Universities and in large parts of society already now with
Hands is to take effect. The experience of other industrial developments gives hope: Technological leaps are possible
and feasible. Thus, approximately 1885 in Berlin, the first power plant
built in Germany in 1900 had virtually all
Cities electricity. While 1970 computers were still working on punch cards and base halls overcrowded, had already 25 years later
many households own a PC at home. The electrification of
Cities to 1900 or the spread of the Internet took only

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

29

Time for the green transformation

100% secure energy

few years. If we want it and forge ahead, we can
also make the leap into a world of clean energy.
Only Alliance '90 / The Greens are sure that this
necessary policy is implemented and the cost equitably distributed
become. Let us, therefore, introduced by us in 2000
Renewable Energy Sources Act, which triggered the technology boom and has been copied by many countries around the world,
smart continue to develop. The EEG has an intense global
Triggered competition among equipment manufacturers, reduced the production cost of solar power by 80% and the current yield
Wind turbines increased enormously. We want the security of investment through the supply and connection priority and the principle
the feed obtained from the EEG but driving up costs
Free special regulations and the burdens split fairly among the electricity consumers.
In addition, we want to re-adjust the screws in the EEG,
cost-effectively to the eco-expanding further advance

and to set incentives for demand generation, such as the biomass. Since the EEG apportionment identifies much higher costs than
the actual costs of the EEG, we want them to be honest in the future, and they will reshape properly. We want
promote an efficiency revolution in the imminent rebound effects,
So the loss of efficiencies by increased consumption,
be avoided. But measures to increase efficiency
must not be limited to the current range. In heat and
Transport sector have the great savings also better
be exhausted. Here we make sure that companies
not by so-called. greenwashing before your press responsibility.
We want to reorient the current market. In the future form
Wind and solar power generation, the basis of our. In sunny and
windless periods can fill the gaps existing storage and highly efficient gas power plants. Even today, however, have
other innovative techniques are developed such as
Biomass power plants, load management, storage and new batteries, linked to the heating sector and electric mobility as well
term generated from wind and solar power Gas ("Power togas").

30

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

100% secure energy

Thus it is worthwhile to provide generating capacity that is not
is always accessed, the current market has to be switched on. What is needed is therefore a modified electricity market design,
not oriented to the sale of coal and nuclear power
is. We want capacity mechanisms in the electricity market security of supply, environmental friendliness, cost efficiency and flexibility
to ensure. We want to make Germany a model region for smart grids (Smart Grids).

2. Continue the energy revolution from below
The current boom of renewable energies in Germany was more than 90% of private individuals and public utilities, not by the
four major energy providers Akimbo. We want the future energy supply is decentralized and closer to its citizens. This
has initiated with its feed-in and a guaranteed remuneration of the EEG. Who torpedoed this successful basis today, they will give only in the hands of large corporations.
We will prevent, by continuing to develop the EEG progressively and align the focus on cost-effective technologies.
At the same time, we will formulate the Company Law so, and
We continue to use the effect that the energy transition also
can be driven in the future by a broad participation of retail investors inside.
We want to support the cities and towns active in,
establish municipal climate and energy concepts, Renewable
expanding and highly efficient cogeneration, the local
Energy supply and local distribution networks again in municipal
To take hand and the energy in citizens hands and
To promote public participation. This will strengthen trade and
Local jobs and ensures that the energy expenditure of
People stay in the region.
To transport electricity is still significantly cheaper than him
save. Just the decentralized expansion of renewable energies
needs the power grid reconstruction. It must optimization and
Reinforcing measures are exhausted and an expansion precede. We therefore are a meaningful power failure

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

31

Time for the green transformation

100% secure energy

construction - even if we know that we are so interested parties before
Location expect some significant burdens. Therefore all
Optimization and reinforcement measures in distribution and transmission networks are exhausted. When network expansion are the
Priority of RES-E and a mains connection is essential obligation. For new lines, it is crucial that the planning and transparent cooperation with environmental organizations and the affected
Communities and citizens are created. We want to underground cables
Set as widely accepted alternative to overhead lines. New
110 kV lines are generally run underground cables, new
380 kV lines at least in sensitive areas with a view to population and nature. We want to also take account of ambitious emissions control regulations precautionary values. We want to
Entry of the Federation into a to be founded German grid company,
mostly in the public sector in order to reduce the current difficulties of operators in the implementation of projects. For this purpose, the four network control zones to be performed together.
However, we will also develop opportunities for participation by the citizens in affected areas, so that they by
benefit the guaranteed returns of electricity networks directly
be able. Likewise, we use the expansion of renewables on a
intensive participation and involvement of those affected, as well as on
Consideration of nature conservation requirements.
To enable a full supply from renewable energy sources, we also need smart distribution networks (smart grids) and
new energy storage; we have the categories of consumption power,
Heat and mobility link. Gas power plants are to be used as a temporary solution to compensate for fluctuations.
The various storage technologies may all have something to
contribute to fluctuations in the generation of wind and sun
compensate at different points in the network. Therefore want
we promote, apply in parallel and can occur in an open technology race. The storage of gas must be in a stable
Deposits are limited. The states falls a responsible task especially in the spatial and temporal control of the further expansion of renewable energies
and the required network and storage infrastructures. To
have the spatial planning tools and procedures at an early

32

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

100% secure energy

while participation of citizens to be strengthened. Here are
all participants in the energy market - whether small or large business city
Group - must play their part.
The energy transition must not at the expense of global food
or of nature conservation go. That is why we are committed to ensuring that
To bind production and import of biomass to compliance with strict environmental, social and human rights standards. Also
In Germany, more use of biomass due to the competition for land with food production, material use is
and nature conservation and recreational purposes is very limited. The limited amount of biomass that is available for power generation
stands, must primarily serve the fluctuating electricity production
compensate for wind and solar. The exaggerated maize cultivation,
the mismanagement in the agricultural and energy policies of the past
Have to answer for years, we want to counteract. Therefore
we will change the conditions in the EEG so that the
Promotion of biogas plants in the future focused on the utilization of biogenic residues and incentives, of
Monocultures on cultivation in crop rotation and on environmentally and
scenically attractive energy crops (eg Blühpflanzenmischungen, clover grass) switch.

3. 100% secure energy without coal and oil
Coal has no future. Lignite and coal cause very
high climate-damaging CO2 emissions, the Braunkohletagebau ruined large areas of our landscapes. The global climate problem
we get only released when the coal will remain where it is below ground. We want to amend the mining law to produce finally full democratic participation and remedies to better protect residents and the environment and new
Prevent Braunkohletagebau. And we will work internationally for the observance of environmental and social standards in coal mining. Gas has the of fossil fuels
lowest CO2 emissions and the greatest flexibility and can so far take over the function of a bridge technology in the age of renewable energies. Nevertheless, we are aware that

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

33

Time for the green transformation

100% secure energy

Gas is also damaging to the climate and finite. Wherever possible, we want gas in combined heat and power (CHP) - ie the simultaneous use of heat and electricity - running and so the proportion
increase in electricity production of KW by 2020 at least 25%. For this purpose we want to amend the CHP Act and improve the incentives for particular mini and micro-CHP ("power-generating heating"). The CO2 capture and storage (CCS)
fossil power plants, and the promotion of unconventional
Natural gas in particular by means of toxic chemicals which ("fracking"), we reject the unforeseeable threats because health and the environment. They also hinder climate protection and energy policy. Toxic water from reserves must not be pressed again.
We want a climate change bill that the transition to the age
of renewable energies has. The law is made to phase
organize the coal and formulate a binding target, the climate-damaging greenhouse gas emissions in Germany
in 2020 to 40%, by 2030 by 60%, by 2040 by 80% and up
2050 to reduce by 95% below 1990 levels. The law will include binding targets for the transport, heat and electricity sector as well as agriculture and forestry. Progress will be reviewed annually. In slippages needs to the
offset much CO2 emitted and amplified the climate
become. These are in the Climate Change Bill and concrete measures
provide effective sanctions. Investors have so security
their long-term strategies in terms of renewable energy and
Energy efficiency.
We want - financed from the reduction of environmentally harmful subsidies - the climate and energy policy law by a 3.5
Billion euros comprehensive investment program for energy-saving fund, a market incentive program, renewable heat and "Smart
Grid "technologies (smart grids) and inferior for research as well as the program for energy efficiency of buildings
increase to 2 billion euros. For the development of efficiency and
highest safety standards in the smart grid technology, we will create an appropriate financial framework.
The production of oil can be increased with traditional mode of production for many years around the world no longer. Demand
However, at the same time continues to grow unabated. Even the so-called. Fracking

34

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

100% secure energy

will not slow down the price upward trend in the long run. We GREEN
know that we have "away from oil" before it leaves us. For the
increasing scarcity and rising prices for fossil fuels can lead to dramatic cost increases energy and mobility,
to food and food crises to geopolitical
Tensions and the collapse of entire industries
lead. The future aspect of drastically rising commodity prices we want in all planning and infrastructure projects of public
Note hand as an important guidance and decision line. The discussion about new farming practices, and lifestyles in the transition
"Away from oil" we want to carry out interdisciplinary and offensively.

Seal 4. Atomausstieg safely and quickly
The energy transition can only succeed with the nuclear phase - the nuclear phase-out is only possible with the energy transition. In the ongoing
Nuclear power plants must have the highest priority to safety. Especially the two ongoing BWRs in Gundremmingen continue to pose a great risk. With us there
no security rebates. We want the conditions so
put that the use of nuclear power is safe, fast and permanently discontinued. We are the safety requirements - otherwise
as black and yellow - increase and bring back to the level of science and technology. If these standards are not complied with
may be, the nuclear plant in question must be removed from the network, which speeds up the nuclear phase-out. We will ensure that all nuclear power plants at least a periodic
Security screening shall be carried out, and preparedness
Plane crash demand. The nuclear industry has been plugged in the profits and the risks socialized. However we want the
Expand compulsory insurance significantly. In addition, provisions for decommissioning and dismantling in a public fund are to be transferred. In our view the nuclear phase-out is completed only when all the facilities of the nuclear fuel cycle
as the uranium enrichment plant in Gronau and the fuel production Lingen are closed; that is our goal.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

35

Time for the green transformation

100% secure energy

Even nuclear power beyond our borders pose high security risks. In a future federal government, we will therefore hold negotiations with the neighboring countries concerned about the safety standards and offer support in the energy turnaround.
We will implement the Aahus Convention as in German law,
that citizens have access to information and possibilities for appeal. The nuclear phase-out is not credible when Germany also supports nuclear projects abroad. Hermes guarantees for nuclear power plant that is why we want to stop immediately and permanently.
The energy transition must take place in the research. Research for further use of nuclear energy and nuclear fusion
is not sustainable. Instead of spending money for nuclear transmutation and the ITER nuclear fusion project to squander, we will public research funds for Transformation Research
use, the technological innovations and the social
Supports anchoring of the energy turnaround. Why we are
for an end to the Euratom Treaty and fusion research
through the ITER project a. If this produces no consensual agreement
with the other contractors is possible, should Germany
unilaterally disembark.
The more one million years radiating nuclear waste is everybody's garbage - if we wanted its production or not. For this must
this generation to take responsibility and finally with broad citizen participation nationwide, open-ended, after
scientific criteria and transparent the most appropriate
Search repository site. Nuclear industry and political forces
continue to try to enforce the unsuitable Gorleben site, will meet our firm opposition. The
Repository search must completely by the polluters of nuclear waste
financed. Nuclear export we want to ban.

5. Affordable heat and electricity for all
Energy is the elixir of life - a warm home and a reliable
Power today for each / n elementary. Energy policy is
therefore also a question of social participation. An on coal, oil
but and gas-based energy supply is a risk of poverty

36

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

100% secure energy

large parts of the population. So were 2011 and 2012, with a
Price of each $ 107 per barrel by far the most expensive oil in years of history, the coal and gas import prices have risen significantly recently.
With the energy turnaround in the heating market, we create energy
Participation for all. Finally, the heating costs are a major factor as the current cost. It is our goal that gradually all
Houses to be rehabilitated in Germany on low-energy house level and the remaining heat demand through renewable energy
will be covered. Because the sun does not send invoice. We want
anchor in the Renewable Energies Heat Act, in addition to the
New even after modernization of heating systems in existing buildings renewable heat must be used proportionately.
We want that from 2015 does not install any new oil heating systems more
become. New buildings that are being built as a plus energy houses are to be encouraged. Electricity and heat supply - for example, by
CHP - are to be coupled. We set the framework so that
the rehabilitation rate of 0.7% today rises to 3% a year. At the same time allowed but the problems associated with the energy-efficient renovation
Not result in investment costs that rents for tenants are no longer affordable. Rather, it is our goal with
our measures Ecology and affordable living in harmony
bring to.
We therefore want to hang a EnergySavingFund we with the
promote targeted energy rehabilitation of residential areas, while supporting low-income households. Also
of better energy advisory services and the launch
particularly energy-efficient appliances will benefit financially weak households. More funds we provide for the introduction
an air housing allowance available to prevent social hardship. We also want the Renewable Energies Heat Act,
modernization apportionment and the Energy Conservation Act so
remodel that they reorganization effective incentives for building
offer. More to the energy performance of buildings can be found in
Chapter "Our policy on the ground."
Also, the current price must be affordable for all. Are of better energy advisory services and the launch of particularly energy-efficient appliances especially financially weak

37

Time for the green transformation

100% secure energy

Households will benefit. Faire electricity prices require a more equitable
Financing of Energy Transition. The energy revolution is currently only
financed by consumers and non-privileged companies, the right energy guzzlers remain outside. Gifts
to the industry, we want to abolish. We limit the subsidies to the companies that are actually in international competition and measures to increase energy efficiency
be able to demonstrate. We will work internationally for
Reduce electricity price subsidies. With the advantages of the situation is reversed: wind and solar power to reduce the price of electricity on the stock exchange,
but in the normal power consumers and consumers
comes this relief not to. We want to change. We want
finance the energy transition solidarity, exuberant privileges
Remove for the industry and other large consumers and electricity suppliers to pass on the decline in stock prices to their customers
bring. This relieves the consumers to
more than 4 billion euros. This corresponds to the average
Power consumption of a family of four a relief of 35
Euro per year. The exemption of large electricity consumers from the cost of the electricity networks have dishes and European Commission rejected.
The federal government wants this unwarranted benefit
nevertheless continue. We want to break down, because it is big
Companies depend on a functioning power grid
and can not be financed from private households this.
The rule sets unemployment benefit II, basic pension, social assistance, student loans and other transfers must be rapidly adapted to higher electricity prices, so as not to social
Imbalances comes. We want an energetic subsistence
guarantee. Gas and power cuts for households have
be restricted by law and obliges the provider, a
Installment agreement or the use of payment counters
offer, instead of electricity or gas to block. Also part of the truth
but also: Even without energy systems, electricity prices would rise,
because due to the outdated power plant park and the old networks
There is a great need for investment in the German electricity system.
And last but not least the cost of fossil fuels will continue to rise.

38

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

100% secure energy

The electricity costs we can even reduce all the easiest,
by reducing our electricity consumption. We want to like from the
Given EU and in some European countries such as Denmark already been successfully applied, a legal basis
create a market for energy efficiency measures in industry, commerce and households. The goal is, by 2020, 15% of
Save electricity consumption. So we do kilowatt hours instead
People out of work and reduce the burden on citizens
and citizens.
In recent years, the efficiency of policy is a virtual standstill
come. Many European initiatives have failed to correct black and yellow. We want Germany again pioneered
energy efficiency and energy savings is. We Greens are the subject of energy savings, therefore, significantly more in the
Focus back. For this purpose it is necessary to promote constructive European initiatives such as the top-runner approach. Especially
in the economy are still enormous efficiency potentials exist.
Instead of always inventing new subsidies in the energy sector,
must finally engage more stringent standards. Alone in the US
applicable standards for electric motors in the economy could
Electricity cost savings result in up to 50%. This would allow the
Loads of companies are reduced enormously for their energy costs, without burdening the consumer. Energy Efficiency
advance and save energy but also requires a critical
social debate on how we deal with energy. Us
GREEN meet this challenge.

6. Climate Change ahead - European and global
For us, the threat of global warming has never been a purely ecological
Theme. Rather, we provide the global context ago. In particular, the countries that have contributed least to climate change, suffer first and most from the
Consequences. But more and more it appears that for the industrialized countries and their economies even a massive risk and
Threat exists. The cause of the climate changes
receive greater of extreme weather events such as storms,

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

39

Time for the green transformation

100% secure energy

Droughts and torrential rain to be affected. If all efforts should be fruitless and there is a heating of more than 2 degrees would be,
another world, the result, for which there is no example in human history. This would make the basis of our diet
and human civilization threatening.
We want to set out all the stops so that by 2015 an ambitious follow-up agreement for the Kyoto Protocol will be decided. We need to limit the consequences of climate change
and try to increase global warming not over 2 degrees
leave. But even if successful, substantial measures to adapt to climate change will be necessary, a fortiori, if we exceed the 2 degree. Thus, the brakeman's global
Climate protection can not block, we advocate a
"Climate policy of different speeds" with Germany within an alliance ambitious pioneer and outside
the United Nations. We are climate policy and energy policy
make it a focal point of our foreign policy. Existing
Are climate alliances such as the Transatlantic Climate Bridge
we continue to expand and stabilize. Climate Political Pioneers can
the creation of air-clubs new dynamic in international
Bring the negotiation process.
We stand for a policy aimed at climate justice. To
Climate Justice heard that the countries and populations who contribute most to climate change and contributed, are primarily obliged to those affected them
Aid and assistance it can to. Whether CO2 emitted in Germany, in China or in the US, the atmosphere is
no matter. It therefore needs a global framework to the ejection
controls of climate-changing gases. But if nature a price
is given to regulate these matters with market mechanisms,
Do we need strong social, environmental and human rights guidelines. We will both nationally and internationally for the
Use reduction of climate- and environmentally harmful subsidies
pushing and even the big economies in the world to do so. Purely
technological approaches such as the geoengineering are not
Solving the climate problem, they do not rely on the causes, but try only - at the cost of high, unexplained risks
- To combat symptoms.

40

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

100% secure energy

Europe must be energy and energy efficiency to the Union for renewable. Our goal is that the European Union will increase its climate target to 30% emission reduction (net of foreign projects) to 2020th The contribution of emissions trading
on climate change so far has fallen short of his expectations. The European emissions trading scheme, we want to strengthen
a shortage of allowances, higher standards and
a minimum price for CO2. Until an agreement is reached at the European level
Germany is by introducing a national minimum price
ahead, the incentives creates decommission old coal power plants and in
Climate to invest. Instead of an extension of emissions trading, we want a stronger orientation of the energy taxes on CO2 emissions in other emission sectors. In addition, we are committed
for a binding further development of the climate, and Erneuerbaren-
Energy efficiency targets of the European Union for the 2030 goal
A: In the meantime, the EU greenhouse gas emissions should be reduced by 45%
and the EU share of renewable energy to rise to 45%. About
to strengthen the renewable energy sources in Europe, we call for a
EU Treaty for Renewable Energy a. To our children a
To leave livable world, we need much more than before
do for climate protection. So far, all measures were insufficient. Dehydrated, intensively used Moore put huge amounts
CO2-free. We want to make a large-scale program for wetland restoration Moore back to CO2 sinks.
We want Germany to its international commitments finally comply, and therefore also spend 500 million euros a year,
so that the poorest countries in mitigation and adaptation measures
can make. Because of the consequences of climate change
and a wrong energy policy are always the weak first
and the hardest hit. In the form of a climate budget
we will submit a tax and budget concept, we with the
the necessary future investments in climate protection and renewable
Energy from the systematic reduction of environmentally harmful subsidies and climate solid and reliable financing.

41

Time for the green transformation

100% secure energy

Who chooses GREEN ...
• right for a successful energy transition with affordable
Prices and 100% renewable energies in the electricity sector to
2030th
• are the energy transition in the hands of citizens and
Citizens.
• want more jobs through renewable energy and
Efficiency.
• ensures a rapid and definitive Atomaus rose
without security rebates and ensure that the disposal of
Nuclear waste is tackled quickly and responsibly.
• votes against coal-fired power plants and the coal phase-out by
2030th
• resolute climate protection will, inter alia, by a climate protection law with binding targets.
• will the energy revolution to the international model of success
do.

42

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

100% secure energy

Key projects
100% renewable energy -
for a fair energy policy in citizens hands
The expansion of renewable energies from 5 to 25% of electricity production in a short time was a significant contribution to sustainable energy supply, climate protection and resource conservation. To
2020 we want to double the share of renewable energy by 2030 and at least the power of Germany
switch to 100% renewable energy. We are thus the most successful economic democratization project continued in Germany. The citizens, cooperatives and
small local companies together with local authorities and
Stadtwerke are the backbone of the energy transition - that is the result of green energy policy. Unlike the black-yellow lobbying for energy companies, we will ensure that the energy turnaround remains in citizens' hands. In order for this "energy transition
Angle "continues, we are defending the feed-renewable, provide predictability for investors, participation opportunities for citizens and thereby initiate the
Carbon exit a. We want to strengthen the provisions of the EEG
revise the renewable energy sector so that it will continue to play a dynamic expansion of renewables and the cost
are distributed fairly. Because the energy transition needs investment. The loads must be distributed fairly and the price of electricity
must remain affordable even during the switchover for all. Therefore
we are first attributed to the industrial privileges and medium-sized businesses and private households by 4 billion euros relieve energy costs.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

43

Time for the green transformation

100% secure energy

Make climate protection reliably -
adopt a Climate Change Bill
The non-binding nature in the climate and energy policy impedes
Energy transition and consistent climate. So far Klimaund was controlled by single energy policy measures quickly
fell into oblivion. All stakeholders need, however,
a reliable investment framework. That is why we are in favor
ensure that a climate bill is passed. In it we formulate binding targets for climate protection as the reduction of greenhouse gases by 40% by 2020 and 95% by 2050 below the level
1990 with concrete objectives and measures for the areas
Electricity and heat, industry, transport, agriculture and forestry.
The Federal Government is obliged to submit every two years a package of measures for each sector, independent experts check this. Annually overlooking effectiveness and cost This is about the often short-winded legislative periods
across a permanent structure for the solution of the generation project mitigation and energy policy created.

Energy revolution ahead -
implement the coal Exit 2030
The biggest climate killer among the energy sources are lignite and
Coal. If we want to stop global warming and
the energy transition is to be organized locally, then you have the
Coal remain where it is below ground. This means that no new
Coal plants and no expansion of opencast mines. The exploitation of nature is particularly visible in Brandenburg, Saxony
and in North Rhine-Westphalia, where huge opencast mines and landscapes
Villages engulf and expel people. For these regions
We want to find sustainable alternatives. In flagship regions
Renewable can be done the transformation with no loss of value locally. Thus the German economy with the
Can plan coal exit, we will accompany him with a Climate Change Bill. Increasing demands on emissions, efficiency
and flexibility of power plants must comply with the expansion of renewable

44

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

100% secure energy

Baren flank to lead the energy revolution to success. Permanently fed in coal power also prevents economic
Maturities for much needed flexible power plants.

45

Time for the green transformation

Not Business as Usual

C. Not Business
As we our market economy ecologically and socially re
justify and overcome the financial and euro crisis
We need a change of course in economic policy. Climate and financial crisis are also an expression glaring market failure.
Economic policy needs to ecological, social and economic
Objectives be required. We stand for a green transformation
our economy. In the long run nothing can economically rational
be what is ecologically and socially unreasonable. We have our
Socially and ecologically newly establish a market economy. A large
Part of the scientific economic models have failed. The
Basic assumptions of the models must be critically reviewed. Us
again need pluralistic approaches in economic policy
Counseling. The European project is highly vulnerable to the profound economic and social divide. The massive depletion
and youth unemployment of up to over 50% in Europe for
GREEN us unacceptable. The German economy has so far
tolerably well come and benefited from their by the financial crisis
Export strength. But this strength is not sustainable. The recession
2009 could be significantly alleviated by the economic stimulus package and the short-time allowance. With the scrapping of the
Automotive industry, the opportunity has been missed to promote ecological modernization. Many millions of people are employed in low-wage jobs and can look at the strength of the company
not participate, too much of the production is based on products that the
Environmental burden or be accompanied by a lousy climate balance.
Moreover, Angela Merkel during her reign 500
Billion euros has amassed debts that future generations
must pay off. Also a further increase in inequality of
Income and assets at risk the sustainability of our
Market economy. We want no longer tolerate.
We are paving the way for a transformation towards a
sustainable economy make. The Federal Republic is a pioneer
be this future economy and to promote a European indus-

46

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Not Business as Usual

Insert riepolitik that sets conditions that also
participate in the southern European countries it and benefit from it.
Germany and Europe need a green industrial revolution, which relies heavily on the small and medium
Company is supported. And we need an initiative of
social services, from education to care. This creates
hundreds of thousands of new jobs.
We set the markets with a value-oriented governance clear social and environmental barriers. Prices must include
speak ecological and social truth. Under these conditions can markets an innovative boost for the thrifty
Use of energy and resources and for new technologies
are in demand worldwide, cause.
It is the merit of a highly innovative medium-sized businesses and their employees that their products are in demand all over the world
are. This innovation must be maintained and expanded.
That's why Germany has to his advantage in efficiency and
Use environmental technologies now.
Not Business as Usual is an end to the black and yellow clientelism. Good economic policy does not mean the interests of a
promote individual companies, but to seek sustainable solutions in the interests of society as a whole. Differently
economies means strengthening the economic participation. A new foundation of our market economy is, the man returned to the
To provide a center for economics. Our economic productivity to serve the prosperity of all. The economy may grow
- But at what cost? Economic growth measured at
the increase in gross domestic product, is therefore neither objective of our political action nor an adequate means of achieving
our policy objectives. That is why it is also about a foundation
for good work - with minimum wages and a higher tax-free subsistence level. People need to be well on their income
can live and have the opportunity for a solid retirement poverty. In other economies also means the distribution of
To make new work, so that more people can participate,
and advocate for humane working conditions and working hours.

47

Time for the green transformation

Not Business as Usual

Not Business as Usual is to get involved to the primacy of
Policy to enforce. By this we mean that democratically
legitimate institutions the framework for economic action
should set. Given the interrelations between need
Politics and economics are analyzed and taken into account. A simple contrast between "good" policies and "poor" economy falls short. The financial markets in Europe, we must at last
take the leash, by correcting the failed economic and financial policies that turned years of deregulation and short-term profit maximization on Sustainable Development. It must
economic laws are respected. Just so we have
a chance that the crisis does not become a permanent state of crisis. In contrast
the federal government, the negotiations in Brussels again
slams on the brakes, we want to strengthen Europe and commit ourselves more on common rules and advance this with. A common internal market and a common currency without a
coordinated financial, budgetary, economic and fiscal policy and
without binding agreed social standards can not in the long run
function. We Greens want to fix this design flaw: The euro countries have their economic and fiscal policies
Vote on one another more.
Not Business as Usual is creating the future. The start of the
Future economy is long and requires many, often small steps.
In the renewable energy we showed GREEN how green
Technologies and new markets to job engines. New green
Jobs also arise in areas such as tourism, health care
and food production, as well as in professional circles who may contribute to the greening of lifestyles, through knowledge transfer,
Consumer education, counseling or eco-certification. Whether mechanical and plant engineering or the chemical industry - the
traditional sectors will benefit from the ecological turnaround.

1. Green Transformation industry - in
Germany, Europe and worldwide
Our previous economic model with its huge appetite for raw materials Energy and has outlived its usefulness. Renewable energies, regulations

48

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Not Business as Usual

generative materials, recycling, better reparability of
Products and sustainable use of resources are the foundations of ecological transformation. Fossil fuels as raw materials
must be used sustainably, and as a reserve. With
green ideas can be profitable - in Germany and in Europe, play a global leadership here
can. There is no opposition between value and ecological and social responsibility. That is the focus of green economic policies.
We do not need less than a green industrial revolution,
the people, the environment and the climate at the center
provides.
An efficient and competitive industry, sustainable jobs and resource-friendly production go
Hand in hand. However, this change will not come by itself. This requires an active policy that uses both regulatory measures and market mechanisms to the creativity and innovation of enterprises in the environmental
To direct conversion. We develop an overarching strategy,
which gives a direction to the structural change and the company
takes her to a new founding era. Companies are actors
of change. Without the entrepreneurial diversity is the ecological
Not to deal with economic modernization. We need
their creativity and flexibility and its investment potential.
This transformation strategy requires different instruments. During an environmental and social framework incentives
sets for sustainable development and public investment
create the infrastructure, green industrial policy will change
moderate in the individual sectors.
Provide targeted funding and research programs with targeted environmental barriers or demand pulses
we up new investment opportunities for businesses and helps preserve
necessary reorganization dynamics trigger.
Green industrial policy taking all sectors into account. All
Companies need to take this structural change, to also
To be successful in the future in the market. We want the industry production give impetus to renew itself under total energy and material efficiency point of view, and forward-looking

49

Time for the green transformation

Not Business as Usual

Promote technologies - be it in the Renewable Energy, the
Automotive and chemical industries.
The expansion of renewable energies has already created hundreds of thousands of new jobs. And there is potential for more
much more if we advance this innovation process:
Wind power plants, solar and photovoltaic systems, energy storage
must be designed, manufactured, installed and maintained.
New smart grids must be developed and comprehensively
be built. Here the highest safety standards must be developed and implemented very quickly. Housing need
thermally insulated, modernized building services, production processes
be energy efficient rebuilt. New jobs so do not arise
only in the renewable energy industries, but also in mechanical engineering, craft, construction, engineering offices.
The transition to resource-light economies and on closed cycles not only benefits the environment,
but also strengthens the competitiveness of our economy and secures jobs. Therefore we introduce the top-runner approach,
so that environmentally friendly technologies are used quickly.
This works, for example, the washing machine with the
lowest power consumption after a specified period Setting the standard, must also comply with all other. So far for
Companies only reporting on financial indicators
mandatory. We want that for companies of a certain size and the coverage of social and environmental
Indicators is mandatory. As an indication serving
so far with the voluntary standards of the Global Reporting Initiative
lessons learned.
Germany as an innovative industrial base must give the Blockiererrolle in the European Resource Efficiency Strategy
and instead shared European objectives, and milestones
Evaluation standards for resource efficiency support. That
Impulse program material efficiency, we want to expand to
Enhance energy efficiency and so efficient production more attractive
do. The efficiency gains are then available for investments in ecological resource efficiency. Binding and ambitious recycling rates, longer shelf life of the products and
Return obligations for producers should for better closure

50

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Not Business as Usual

and protection of the biogeochemical cycles contribute. The ecological modernization triggers enormous financing needs. We want new
Open up ways to attract private financial flows in ecological conversion. So for project bonds takes the public sector
against participation a part of the high risks of the private
can not be worn, and allowing important investments.
At the mobility economy as a whole and in particular on the
Automotive industry hanging in the Federal Republic of hundreds of thousands
Jobs. Only those with environmentally friendly concepts and vehicles
has a presence in the international market, economically has a future and remain competitive. That is why it is important,
that in future the most innovative and efficient cars from
Roll off. By creating ambitious consumption limits
We binding framework and planning security. However
We Greens are also aware that it is therefore not done. Given
climate change is not about more and more cars, but
a traffic shift towards less motorized transport.
And it is also about new mobility concepts based on social and
ecological innovations. Thus, in carsharing models "Owning" is replaced by "benefit".
Nowhere else to bundle the challenges that we face, as much as in the chemical industry. However, the chemical industry also has an enormous potential for solving urgent
Problems. For this purpose, they must focus more on the use of certified renewable resources. Green raw materials policy is in addition to efficiency and recycling does not rely on imports of raw materials with often dubious origin. Recycling is no chemical
Processes possible in the rarest cases. Chemistry can help to insulate buildings to generate solar power or to make transport cleaner. An electric car is only equipped with a powerful
can successfully complete and efficient battery on the market.
For the chemical industry is even more part of the solution
be and also the environmental challenges in the
Product development questions. The liberation of the chemical industry from mineral oil can not in our view longer
hold; as polluting subsidy we want it under
our ecological fiscal reform and do away with such incentives to

51

Time for the green transformation

Not Business as Usual

Give innovation away from oil. For an active industrial policy is needed, which is trying to negotiate with global trading partners a level playing field as well as a credit and
Economic program of KfW and a research program for the
hang German solar industry.
The generation of electricity from renewable sources has increased from
developed an energy policy niche in a boom market. Other countries such as China have the meaning of the industry
recognized. The black-yellow government has failed, a
appropriate emphasis to set. ALLIANCE 90 / THE GREENS
seen in the production of renewable energy a key for
a sustainable economy and want a competitive solar industry as industrial focus in the EU. We want a European industrial policy for renewable energy. One
Such support must be accompanied to build a powerful renewable energy industry by appropriate funding instruments. Needs against unfair dumping practices
a European answer be found.
The maritime industry is of strategic importance for the
entire Federal Republic. After years of the boom it is in crisis. Tax-saving models have the ship financing to a
Made speculative business in which many investors have lost their money. We want to provide the maritime alliance and the ship financing on a new footing.
Federal, state and local authorities to give around 360 billion euros per year
public procurement from. That's over 14% of gross domestic product (GDP). We want the transformation of the economy
promote more on this lever by the public sector
is consistent with the procurement on innovative products.
These products and services provided by public bodies
to buy, are environmentally sustainable and humane working conditions, in accordance with the core labor standards of the International Labour Organisation (ILO), to be produced
and meet the criteria of fair trade. We will for
Insert a corresponding change in the legal rules on procurement. We also call an Action Plan for Organic
and social procurement with clear objectives based on the principle
of gender budgeting, uniform job aids, training and

52

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Not Business as Usual

Networking opportunities and a central service and information center. The activities and initiatives in diversity management (diversity management) should be supported and promoted.
The broadband expansion is based on a modern economy.
With fair conditions and affirmative action
we are driving the development of a universal service and the expansion of a nationwide high-performance network. Net Neutrality
also guarantees small suppliers equal access.
Industrial production in Germany is not characterized
more simply by milling, drilling and soldering, but rather is closely
associated with research, development and application software.
Today to be research and development, design and above
all software and more important. Industry and services
are no antagonism, but rather depend on and complement each other.
Green Economic Development adapts to it. A new understanding of innovation, matching programs and the permeability
of training are important for the new requirements. Of the
Demographic change is also a major economic challenge. Necessary are a family-friendly corporate culture, training opportunities and good conditions
for age and age-appropriate jobs to the threat
To address skills shortages. This includes special efforts to women and men equally access
to allow for sustainable jobs. We recognize
foreign degrees easier to promote lifelong learning
and the training activities of SMEs. With good universities, we are attractive for foreign
Students who after their training their future in Germany
see and contribute to the economic success or bridge builder
are in their countries of origin.
We are committed to sustainable and equitable international
Trade and investment policy a. The following principles must be in
apply all EU investment and -Handelsabkommen: comprehensive
Transparency, mandatory human rights, social and environmental impact assessments before and after the conclusion of agreements, binding on the impact of the agreement itself
related human rights and environmental clauses, recognition
protection of interests of weaker countries, promoting local and

53

Time for the green transformation

Not Business as Usual

regional trade and the expansion of the value in the developing countries. We want to control the international financial and commodity markets and call for more binding rules on
Companies to comply with social, environmental, transparency and
Human rights standards for businesses. This includes the
Introduction country- and project-related reporting obligations for transnational corporations. People who are victims of human rights violations by transnationally operating companies become
are, to get a better access to justice and constitutional litigation. Under German commercial law and
must be defined the liability of parent companies for their subsidiary corporations for human rights violations at EU level.
One reason for the financial crisis were disproportionately high
and aligned only on short-term success and Manager
Supervisory Board remuneration. Excessive salaries, bonuses and severance imagination we want to limit effectively. The remuneration of
Board members of listed companies should in the future the mandatory approval of the general meeting subject. The tax deductibility should be limited to 500,000 euros, thus
co-finance the public exorbitant salaries no longer
got to. Bonus payments should be linked to the profit and may
future along with other variable salary components as
Bonuses and stock options a maximum make up a quarter of the total content. Profit sharing principle should in future
be long-term oriented and they should also participate in the
Losses the company faced. In order to achieve greater transparency in remuneration, the remuneration of all board members must be disclosed annually.

2. The crisis overcome - by a
solidary and ecological Europe
The European Union is facing a fundamental crisis. Core
But the crisis is not the euro, but an economic development model that is unsustainable and its own competitiveness undermines. The collapse largely un-

54

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Not Business as Usual

regulated financial markets, the errors and weaknesses of this
Economic model revealed unsparingly.
Schwarz-Gelb claimed that the countries in southern Europe have lived for years beyond their means and now have to be on massive
Wage cuts and spending cuts downsized. Merkel is silent, however, that the borrowing very much
was used to rescue banks. Of particular German banks, life insurers and other creditors have benefited. Some European countries also has years
across more imported than exported. But the foreign trade deficits in parts of Europe also face many years of massive export surpluses in other countries. Both developments are in
a common currency area threaten the existence. Reinforced
were these problems by Europe increased inequality of income and wealth as well as an excessively
large financial sector. This has in the past decades
an unsustainable credit growth out. Through political and
economic undesirable developments in individual Member States
were the problems aggravated.
The hesitant, contradictory, socially imbalanced European crisis management, the lack of parliamentary and
too little controlled co-ordination within the euro area exposed mercilessly. Banks were stabilized with billions, tackled modest approaches stronger European financial market regulation, over-indebted public budgets with new
Having loans, countries enacted drastic spending cuts, debt limit as a new golden rule enforced, enforced cuts in social and wage dumping, a new growth anyway
vaguely promised. But as in the past, to show more and more disastrous effects of the unilateral
Austerity - this leads Europe deeper into crisis and endangered social cohesion.
This crisis is not simply just a sovereign debt crisis. To them
permanently resolve, Europe needs a new perspective. We need a renewal of the European economy in terms of
European Green New Deal. Sustainability must become the basis of European competitiveness. Central is the financing
ecological modernization investments and European networks. Us

55

Time for the green transformation

Not Business as Usual

need more common European economic policy. To
heard a strong European banking union. We also call for a European tax pact against tax dumping, tax avoidance and tax evasion. What is needed is to combat youth unemployment a crash program for the education and training
of young people in the crisis countries. We defend fair wages,
Trade union rights and minimum living social guarantees. Europe can emerge stronger from the crisis, if we succeed in a
Enforce alternative to Merkel'sches strategy that the crisis countries especially with austerity, cuts in social and wage dumping
maltreated. Because you can save out from such a crisis is not easy, the key focus has directed it,
, as new economic dynamism can arise.
The economic imbalances in the European Union
have their origin in both the deficit and in surplus countries like Germany. A European economic policy needs
do more, that the economic strength of the Member States
more evenly developed. This requires that the domestic economy in the
Surplus countries be strengthened. In recent years, however, real wages stagnated or even fell. Thereby, both the
Imbalances within Europe as well as the uneven distribution
the market income rose significantly in Germany. We want to reverse this trend and Living wages again
Make a rule. For that we need in Germany finally
a statutory minimum wage, to feed the wage spiral down a bolt, flanked by other measures
Strengthening of the tariff system. We also want to reach that
In the future, the development of real wages is based on productivity gains again.
At the same time it must be ensured that in crisis countries
is amplified is investing in sustainable industries and thus increases competitiveness. We also want the sales opportunities
improve the company from the crisis countries.
We call for a European redemption pact, the on
that proposed by the Expert Council of the Federal Government
Redemption fund based. First, we show the actors on
the markets so that the euro zone to fulfill its obligations
holds. Secondly, we achieve lower interest rates through joint credit

56

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Not Business as Usual

ditaufnahmen and transparent debt reduction through clear
Rules. We place the redemption pact secure funding basis. This we intend to capital levies in the
support European countries and so the debt problem
solve social justice. Third, we will replace the already de facto
existing liability by a European Union with Solidarunion
binding rules. We want the ESM into a European
Rebuild Monetary Fund (EMF) and so make it a real crisis response instrument. Clear conditions for participation,
particularly with regard to budgetary consolidation, are needed
but must be socially balanced. The ESM / EMF should be subject to democratic scrutiny by the European Parliament.
Our objective remains to euro bonds, even if they are not from one day to
are realized tomorrow. With European bonds including strict
Editions succeeds with a Community liability commitment
all Member States (Euro bonds) best of confidence- and
Funding crisis put an end to the euro zone. However, the introduction of euro bonds requires a treaty amendment.
Future needs in dealing with sovereign debt crises
the private sector to be involved much more comprehensive than in the past to the crisis costs. We therefore take the world for a fair and
independent, orderly and stabilizing States insolvency proceedings. In the euro zone, this is only after the introduction of
Euro Bonds for then still possible national guaranteed debt titles apply.
With the newly created office of a / an EU Commissioner
Economic and Monetary Affairs, we want the necessary growth
of independent decision making at European level in terms of personnel
anchor. He / she will chair the Euro Group and Ecofin
exercise, but no laws without the consent of the European
Parliament may adopt. In addition, he is / they by the European
Parliament individually selectable and be deselected.
We criticize the European policy course of Merkel sharply. It
is negligent, as the monetary union by the federal government on
Game is set. Especially the German economy has benefited and German banks have spent years in the excellent
Earned economic and monetary union. The black-yellow government has exacerbated the crisis in the EU, the Member States

57

Time for the green transformation

Not Business as Usual

driven apart and considerably more expensive rescue at the expense of taxpayers. Merkel is always too slow
and short-sighted - with her hesitation and procrastination it has not only
an expensive spiral set in motion during the Greek crisis: The
Uncertainty in financial markets followed the flight from government bonds of crisis countries, which consequently either exorbitant
Must pay interest on the capital market or were completely cut off from it.
Even worse - with dramatic consequences for the European Union and the global economy - it would have been, however,
to let the crisis countries go bankrupt uncontrolled and speculative attacks on the financial markets to the euro nothing to oppose. We have therefore in the Bundestag the rescue packages
and the fiscal compact agreed. In the overall balance that was
for us the best possible decision. Without a rescue would be
the social and economic impact in the crisis countries even more devastating - and therefore we have Angela Merkel
repeatedly to faster and act decisively
asked. We have succeeded in wresting the federal government a commitment to financial transaction tax. By contrast, the promises in the direction of investment and growth package,
since they were made in 2012, remained largely hot air.
We are not satisfied.

3. Take the financial markets on a leash
Mass unemployment in Europe, the crisis in Europe and exploding national debt in Germany - the collapse of some banks in the US, UK and Germany
has developed into the worst economic crisis since the thirties. The financial markets have their central task as a service
for the real economy. Will they end in itself, they serve as
(Play) casino and entire economies into the abyss can
overthrow. With strict regulation we want sustainable
and socially equitable economic order anchor. Until now much
too often: losses assume the taxpayers, the profits

58

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Not Business as Usual

continue to emphasize a shareholders and creditors. This is
neither fair nor equal to market principles.
We want a common banking supervision with a single set of rules. Internationally active banks should from the new
European Banking Supervisors are directly supervised, small institutions with only a regional business must not continuously
be supervised by a European institution. But we need a standardization of prudential standards and
small institutions of a pass-through and final decision
in case of failure of national supervisors. Is complemented by the European
Bank Union according to our ideas about common mechanisms for the settlement of crisis, banks and a common framework for European deposit guarantee schemes. The
Bank Union is the green answer to the hesitation and procrastination of
Merkel government, further the liability of taxpayers
permits, and shows that more Europe offers real added value.
We Greens believe that the current, via complex regulatory regime in the medium term to be unfit to prevent renewed outbreak of financial market induced crises.
The focus of financial market regulation needs to change. The
enormous complexity of the current requirements carries the risk,
that the ultimate goal of action, namely the stabilization
the financial system, will be lost sight of. The most important
More transparent and simpler step toward rules is a
Debt brake for banks. Only if the equity base
the financial system as a whole increases, decreases its susceptibility to unexpected shocks. For this gives a higher equity base the fundamental principle of liability for a market economy reasserting by first adhere those for losses,
who also receive the profits in good times. Switzerland
and Britain have here already set character while
the black-yellow government before the cart of German banks has had tense. Banks may no longer be
about unrealistic risk weights its equity requirements
small count. As a first step we want to at least 3% in 2017
Equity to total assets as risikoungewichteten
Debt ceiling fix. In the long term a much higher
Odds necessary. The Scientific Advisory Board of the Eco- nomic

59

Time for the green transformation

Not Business as Usual

Ministry about calls for a quota of 10%. In the academic discussion are even higher rates in conversation.
We will look closely at what is necessary and possible, and here in
what time is feasible. This debt brake will stabilize the financial system significantly. The clarification we debt brake for banks comes in here and presents the financial sector again
to his feet.
The size brake for banks goes in a similar direction: the
larger an institution, the higher capital requirements
and the supervisory intensity. How to obtain banks of a certain size a strong economic incentive to shrink
repel and business parts. Even beyond we will
Germany as in Europe develop mechanisms to lead large banks to smaller financial institutions. We want that
Banks long term finance more, so that a bank panic
as in 2008 can not be repeated. We will therefore examine whether
a bank levy for a European bank restructuring fund can be designed so that banks have the incentive to reduce their long-term finance. With this release, we are creating
Funding for a European bank restructuring fund, so
not the taxpayers be asked to pay in the event of a renewed banking crisis. This risk is no longer out of the
regulated area can be outsourced, the shadow banking sector needs to be regulated similarly to regular banking sector.
All companies which conduct banking business in the broader sense,
ie in particular awarded long-term loans and himself for
debt in the short term, the same rules must be subject to
such as credit institutions.
Creditors must bear more responsibility. Why should bank bonds partially in risk capital
can be converted, if a credit institution in difficulties
device. This should happen automatically, as a rule. A competent authority shall take over the height of the necessary conversion
decide. Deposits within the statutory deposit insurance
may be involved in any case. Sight deposits above the
legally secured border may only be included after offsetting potential liabilities. A statutory deposits

60

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Not Business as Usual

gensicherungsversprechen is righteous, protects savers and
stabilize banks by preventing bank runs.
The power of rating agencies has become rampant in recent years. We see how the agencies on the fate
in decisions by all States. Rating agencies are not liable
for misclassification and not to political and economic
Standards attached. Therefore, the bases of liability must be extended and the influence of the rating agencies are contained in the financial regulation. The transparency of the agencies
we will increase and end conflicts of interest. Especially
must no longer pay for their own ratings debtors.
Therefore, we will strive at European level for
to establish an independent credit rating agency by the banks.
We call for a two-tier banking system, because it stable markets
makes. Business areas in which the banks operating commercial transactions on their own account are therefore strictly separated
from real economy financing and deposit business.
An effective liability is constitutive of the market economy. For
the management of funds, banks and insurance companies, this means:
The captain goes down with the ship. He is responsible for their own errors
and his subordinates, liability insurance for managers allowed the risk therefore not completely take over.
The same applies to capital backers, so the owners and
Creditors of banks. You have to fear for their use,
because only then will they effectively control management.
If their use is guaranteed by the state, the management is always
risky economies because profits flow to the capital backers,
while losses are socialized. Only when they order their use
to fear, creates an incentive for owners to control management effectively. The remuneration of managers and traders in the financial sector, we want to be configured such
that it aligns with the long-term success rather than short-term profits. But we also need a powerful
Merger and competition control in the financial market, which
the model of perfect competition in all parts of financial markets
feels committed and against market power and market concentration
going. We want the balance of power between regulators and

61

Time for the green transformation

Not Business as Usual

Improve significantly regulated in favor of the financial supervision: material, legal, human resources, organizational and informational.
Many financial transactions can not find on regulated trading venues instead, but directly between the actors. The downside: The
Supervision shall intervene no chance. That is why they must
Shadow markets to light. European and international long-term
Rules are designed to ensure. Also, the high-frequency trading superfast computers need a speed limit, so that each order must be maintained for at least 1 second. The bears
instrumental in the financial markets more stable and thus more secure.
Simultaneously, the FTT has a regulating effect here. That
Bursting credit-financed asset bubbles has enormous economic, social and ecological consequences. To prevent the emergence of such bubbles, the instruments must
Developed European Central Bank and Financial Market Authority
become. For this purpose and in view of their massive increase in importance
need it - while respecting the independence of the central bank - also an open debate on their role and instruments.
We want to draw more private capital in sustainable and climate-friendly investments. Here the system of public banks is of particular importance. Investment is also
an ethical issue - investments in cluster munitions producers about
We therefore want to prohibit. In addition, the following applies: With food you play
not! Funds, major banks and other institutional investors
heard the speculation in these markets therefore prohibited. As well
must all dealers subject to strict reporting requirements and
basic position, price and speed limits are introduced.
Also includes the so-called land-grabbing (land acquisition) outlawed.
We will vigorously to ensure that Germany by national laws and international agreements contributes to
Investors and government institutions of the voluntary guidelines
Comply with Food and Agriculture Organization for Agricultural, Fisheries and forests. In addition,
should the allocation of development loans to compliance with the
Guidelines are established.
The monitoring of the soundness of financial institutions is often a conflict of interest relating to consumer protection. We therefore demand
an expansion of consumer protection for financial products. Financial

62

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Not Business as Usual

advice from commission-based financial products are today
often not in the interest of the customers, but in the interest of
Financial mediators by high commissions. Commission-driven negligent advice we want to prevent. We call for a consumer protection oriented regulation of the commissions so that advice
principle is independent of the amount of commission. To
is also a total ban commission in the discussion, which in
other European countries already exists. As a viable alternative, we want the consulting fee, for example, by creating a
unified profession, strengthen. Furthermore, have private
Consumer Inside better informed about the risks of financial products
be informed.
At the same time, we want to work for greater financial literacy for all. Only if we have the structures and instruments of financial markets
understand, we can further strengthen and enhance transparency of the markets, the demand for sustainable investments.
The stabilization of financial markets has caused tremendous cost, to which the sector has hardly involved. A financial transaction tax, which includes all financial market transactions,
may pay part of the cost. We continue to be GREEN to our demand, a large part of revenue in the
Reducing global poverty and global climate protection
let as well as to transfer the FTT into Community law and in the EU budget flow. The decision
in first eleven European countries, a financial transaction tax
to want to implement, is a success of the anti-globalization movement and green politics. In another embodiment of this
Control we want to work to ensure that all financial transactions,
the-counter, be taxed as possible throughout Europe.
The amount of the financial transaction tax, we want by product type
differentiate and risk. This also means that the government
ensures at last a transparency of bank bailouts and published how much the bailout of the banks has cost the taxpayers so far.
Only a stable financial sector, the businesses and consumers provide them with loans. If the German three-pillar system of savings banks, cooperative banks and private banks
proven here. To micro-banks, therefore, of bureaucratic

63

Time for the green transformation

Not Business as Usual

Needs to be relieved. Thus, finally enough
Personnel are employed for banking supervision.
Since the financial crisis, the sector of sustainable banks growing
rapidly. They show that a different financial sector is possible. These
Banks set themselves strict rules for sustainable behavior and usually let their customers about their activities
decide. Most are organized as a cooperative and
acting non-profit primary. Supporting Green Policy
Sustainable banking regulatory.

4. strengthen Small and Medium Enterprises
The SME sector is the backbone of our economy. The many small and medium-sized enterprises research and develop innovative and creative solutions. We light you therefore in
the focus of our economic policy and support a society in which self-employment is a realistic option. We will work to ensure that medium-sized and family-run companies in Germany continue good site conditions
find. We have not the needs of these companies
only in economic, but also in infrastructure, education and tax policy in view. This also includes the unfair
To end competitive advantages of international corporations through tax planning models. Craft has golden floor - craft has green bottom! The craft has to protect the climate and
in resource conservation a central role. This houses a
get better insulation so that more repairs than is discarded, so more solar modules come on the roofs -
for all the hundreds of thousands of well-qualified craftsmen and artisans are needed. For this purpose, the craft needs good
Training conditions and training opportunities.
Fair and comparable conditions are a prerequisite,
so that small and medium enterprises compete
be able. We therefore want to create the possibility of individual providers to force more than large market power to give up corporate and market shares. Competition law needs new
Instruments that prevent companies be competitive

64

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Not Business as Usual

gain advantage by environmental and social costs
Relocate the environment and society. By competition breaches
Consumers are harmed, so have their rights
be strengthened in antitrust law.
We want through amendment of the GWB, the Bundeskartellamt
in the regulation of oligopolistic and monopolistic
Strengthen markets and examine how by changes in the law relating to unfair competition a rolling private costs
the Community and the non-accounting of emission from an economic entity environmental damage (externalization) can be counteracted.
We promote the social climate of innovation by also
Cutting red tape and advice from pilotage. One thing is clear for
us that the chambers represent the interests of all
Economy must be transparent, intercultural and democratic. In addition, we expect that they will increasingly be
strive to attract more small and medium sized businesses, entrepreneurs with an immigrant background and women for their bodies. Otherwise, the mandatory membership is no longer justifiable. The
Double membership in chambers we want to emphasize compensation.
The conditions for start-ups, we improved by
We break down barriers to establishment. New things are for
us does not allow bureaucratic act, but a creative departure, the innovation and jobs and realizes personal freedom. Therefore we also demand at start-ups requires a more equitable funding and targeted deals
the start-ups by women, even and especially for
Returners. The promotion to independence must
also be guaranteed for all establishing consent jobseekers.
And we need better counseling. Especially the respective
Potentials of people with a migration history and the potential of people with disabilities must be supported individually
become.
Our concept of property tax we have designed,
that self-employed and business owners who are not legal in the
Pensions are a solid poverty and auskömmliches retirement income is made possible from its own assets. also
We want self-employed who are not otherwise sufficient pre-

65

Time for the green transformation

Not Business as Usual

have sorrow, include in the statutory pension scheme as,
that it is not financially overwhelmed and them as well as a
Way opened in the guarantee pension.
Small and medium enterprises we want to promote tax.
We abolish the possibility of pool depreciation in the low-value assets and increase the limit on the deductibility immediately in order to improve liquidity. The tax
Promotion of retained earnings (capital growth) should be designed so that even small companies this form of strengthening
their equity and their ability to invest is open. One
15% tax credit for research expenses for companies
with up to 250 employees to the innovative forces of small and
strengthen medium-sized companies unbureaucratic what we alone
Scheduling EUR 200 million in the federal budget. Project funding
is for small businesses administratively too costly and is
therefore hardly used accordingly. Through a tax credit for
these companies can be a disadvantage compared to large
Corporations are degraded.
In East Germany, another, much smaller units corporate structure has changed since the fall of the wall emerged
as in western Germany. This also has important implications
for the research landscape in eastern Germany, which must be a government-sponsored much stronger because the average
Do not allow operating variables in the East its own research. There
Also, the federal government is required, since the East needs an innovation and research initiative and support for technology transfer and clustering.
We improve access to venture capital and the wider
Supply of microcredits. For a creative business idea
perhaps convinced only at second glance, would that be possible as well as for someone who has been with a company
has failed and now looking for a second chance. We want a
Check revision of the restructuring clause, which with EU law
is adjacent to the preservation of jobs also allows the carry on of innovative enterprises. The restructuring clause has to be designed so that abuse is prevented and
equally a continuation of an enterprise with positive
Going concern assumption is made possible. Founders centers can

66

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Not Business as Usual

NEN help through their marketing and financial skills young enterprises and women entrepreneurs to market success
or if necessary also in time pull the ripcord before indebtedness when no prospect of success in the market is.
The cultural and creative industry is an important economic factor which creates jobs and contributes to value creation.
However, the framework for which is usually very small businesses must be improved through the social security and easier access to loans or microcredit.
Patent law we continue to develop, because it is the culture of
Independence convey and not inhibit. Patent protection should
be limited to new products and ideas, and not as a means
can be used against new companies inside. We must
rules within the EU: we are committed to a reform of the European patent system and the control by the European Parliament. Patents on living organisms must be prohibited.

5. There is plenty to do - from people for people
Quality social services in health care and education are crucial to the quality of our social
Cohabitation. Moreover, they are themselves a major
and dynamically developing industry. By 2020, more than six million people will be engaged only in the health system.
However, neither the alignment of the existing economic policy
nor the modest salaries and stressful working conditions reflect this importance. While in other industries
high bonuses are paid, salaries and working environment remain in the social services behind their social
Value. A culture of recognition is lacking in this area
completely. Nurses, midwives, nurses or kindergarten teachers create the basic conditions for successful
Economies.
Green policies for social services ensures sustainable
their funding, promotes research and innovation, boosts
Attractiveness of health, care and education professions and sawn

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

67

Time for the green transformation

Not Business as Usual

fight wage dumping. We create new, good work by a binding quality full offer of early childhood care
to all parents, the expansion of all-day schools and more staff
at universities and the expansion of prevention under the third pillar
healthcare. We extend the concept of innovation to
social innovation and be weighted Services as a research field more.
Social services are often used by non-profit-makers,
provided by churches and charities. Central to this is,
that when awarding contracts not only the costs, but also
the quality of service is assured. The award of
social services can not be done using the criteria for the procurement of computers, envelopes or
Pencils. As we labor in such services
want to change, we have described in the chapter "participation in good work".

6. Promoting Solidarity Economy
Solidarity Economy means for us, our actions at the
Guidelines align social, environmental and economic sustainability. We promote various approaches solidarity economy because it freedom itself certain actions
and democracy is linked to social justice. Here
we are building on successful examples of how citizens energy cooperatives or local KonsumentInnen- and producers inside communities. The direct marketing of green electricity from co-operatives and community facilities is to strengthen citizens'
in order to create incentives for decentralized power generation.
An important factor is the co-operative movement.
We want to facilitate start-ups in this area, make available to a wider circle cooperative services and promote their development. Less bureaucratic given
we the co-operative legal status, for example, through a relief
with the audit obligations. At the same time we end discrimination against Community companies especially in start-up

68

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Not Business as Usual

and support programs and facilitate access to financial services.
In addition, we want to conserve resources and business
Service models with shared promote, in
where the use instead of ownership is paramount. To
include carsharing models as well as intergenerational housing communities, becoming a solution for scarce
Provide housing in big cities. For providers and consumers of vacation exchange, participation and rental services as well as for the
Open Source and Free Software movement, we therefore want
Provide legal certainty. We also support solidary trade networks and regional currency initiatives to promote regional value.
The acquisition of a stationary front or in the insolvency business by employees may be an appropriate instrument for sustainable jobs based on
Economic management to secure. This we want to support, for example by
a right of first refusal in transfer of operations. To the staff
to permit the exercise of pre-emption, it requires appropriate financing instruments. With the promotion of solidarity
Economy, we open up new possibilities for economic
Participation and co-determination.

7. Sustainable management instead of blind growth
The obsession with the growth of gross domestic product as a criterion for economic and social success
no longer acceptable. In this key figure is prosperity form
and quality of life very badly, social security, equality between women and men, good education or an intact
Environment not. High accident rates, real estate bubbles or
increase wasteful resource consumption with concomitant environmental degradation growth but are highly damaging
for prosperity and quality of life.
Economic growth, as measured by the increase in gross domestic product, is therefore neither objective of our political action nor a sufficient means to achieve our political

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

69

Time for the green transformation

Not Business as Usual

policy objectives. On the issue of decoupling economic growth
and environmental consumption is the challenge in the absolute
Reduction of the current global resource consumption. Us
commit ourselves and for far-reaching improvements in efficiency
political, economic, social and cultural framework within which they can be effective.
The appreciation of a man by the company may
not primarily depend on his material possessions or property. And we are committed to accelerating the process of economic and social ökologischtransformatorischen
with the aim of climate and resource protection comprehensively in
anchor lived everyday. This requires binding social
and environmental barriers for doing business and
Consumers.
We need new indicators, in addition to the economic aspects, but also the environmental and social condition of our country
depict. As part of the initiated by us Study Commission of the German Bundestag "growth, prosperity, quality of life", we have therefore developed a new indicator of prosperity,
the "green prosperity compass". He measured wealth in the lives of all people and the state of our environment by, inter alia, the ecological footprint as a measure of resource consumption involving. Even economic policies must adhere to
Align the objectives of sustainability. For this purpose, we want a new
Prosperity and sustainability law draw which takes the place of the outmoded "Stability and Growth Act".
The question of the importance of economic growth presents
However, in the long term. If growth fails, threaten
social conflicts over distribution. Recessions let unemployment rise, putting pressure on the social security systems and
lead to higher government debt. We have before us
this background, the question, how we deal with steadily declining
Growth rates deal as since in the industrialized world
Decades to be achieved. We therefore strive to reduce the long-term growth as a function of our economy. The debate about the proper means to do so was one of us already in the Study
initiated and should be continued with the scientific community and the forces of civil society in the parliamentary chamber.

70

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Not Business as Usual

Alliance '90 / The Greens sit down from time immemorial for an acceleration of the ecologically-transformational processes of
Economy and society with the aim of climate and
Resource protection comprehensively to anchor in the lived everyday.
Through an innovative regulatory law, the abolition of climate and
environmentally harmful subsidies, public investment and
Market incentive and research programs creates green policy
Framework for a regenerative economy. In order to align long-term economic cycles renewable and sustainable, moreover is an even stronger central anchoring of
Sustainability principle on adjustments in competition and
Property Law necessary and should be extended to cultural and social commons to their full diversity ago
To protect exploitation and thus long-term destruction by economic processes.

71

Time for the green transformation

Who chooses GREEN ...

Not Business as Usual

• brings green economies forward, in industry and services, in the Federal Republic and in Europe - and creates
many new jobs.
• effectively regulating the financial markets so that they back in
Service People and businesses are.
• creates a level playing field, promoting innovation
and is not afraid of dealing with large
Players.
• with working on a democratic and solidary
Europe, where the reform loads not in the poorest
be unloaded.
• supported a policy that the quality of human life
today and tomorrow has in view and on solidary economy is held on an outdated growth ideas.

Key projects
For Ressourcenef fi ciency Alliance -
Introducing top runner principle
Resource efficiency means that we do not want to continue the substance of our
Consume the earth rather than live off their earnings. Resource Efficiency
is an ecological innovation strategy that reduces the need for imported raw materials and held by cost reduction in material in wages
Competitiveness increases. That is why we want to bring a resource efficiency alliance concluded with the participation of industry, research,
NGOs, politicians and administrators participate. They should help to ensure that
Eighth businesses even more closely on resource and material efficiency. When are top runner principle the most environmentally friendly and effi-

72

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Not Business as Usual

cient product before the standard that all others in a predetermined
Must reach time. The previously toothless program for resource efficiency (progress), we intend to further develop and to binding and
complement ambitious recycling targets and take-back obligations for producers. We support this inter alia through a fair and
sustainable public procurement policy.

Financial markets reorder -
a debt brake for banks
The lack of regulation of financial markets has made the world into a
historical financial and economic crisis toppled. Since then, hardly anything happens. Taxpayers should not have to pay again for the misconduct of the financial industry. We need in addition to a
European banking union with more powerful supervision and bankenfinanziertem rescue fund primarily a binding debt brake for banks. Banks have until 2017 at least 3% equity
hold in relation to their total assets. This debt brake
will make virtually impossible and stabilize the financial system clearly highly speculative transactions of the past.

Economic growth is not the measure of all things -
New Indicators for Prosperity and Quality of Life
The fixation of politicians and the media on the gross domestic product
(GDP) has led us astray. The exploitation of man and nature
was sold to us as a growth success. But on the most important
Things that make a country successful and life worth living,
GDP tells us nothing. Is growth with environmental degradation and
Injustice redeemed, makes us even poorer bottom line. That is why we need a new yardstick for prosperity
and quality of life. For this, we establish a new indicator of prosperity. The "Green Prosperity compass" also includes the social
and environmental aspects. Accordingly, we are calling for companies of a certain size in addition to the prescribed financial and compulsory sustainability reporting
on social and environmental indicators. So we can give the economic development a green direction.
Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

73

Time for the green transformation

Households D. Besser
Households Better

Why are we a government capable of taking action
not allowed to pump fi nance
There is much to do. But the ecological reconstruction, the formation and breakup of the social compensation can only succeed with a capable of acting State. For this purpose, the state needs a strong and solidarity-based financing, for a policy on credit, we can not
afford more. Say The debt brakes federal and state
nothing more than that expenditure and revenue in a stable
Must be balance.
The enormous debt of all public budgets is also the
Result of dishonest financial policy of the past decades,
which drives the neo-liberal government under Merkel on the tip: Despite
increasing tax revenues, the debt of the Federal Republic
while Merkel's chancellorship increased by 500 billion euros. Instead of funding important reforms, they wasted the money
the taxpayers and it is in a senseless care benefit or - even worse - supplied with it by lowering the
VAT rate for the hotel sector ("Mövenpick-tax")
a single interest group. However, the debt is so high,
that for addressing common challenges to spending cuts, subsidy cuts and tax increases no
Passes way. Anyone who tries anything else, has been negligent.
Conversely, however, also applies: Not everything that is desirable is, from
immediately financially. That is why we set clear priorities for the financial impact projects for a government takeover.
Who wants to finance important projects for the future and set up public finances sound, must set priorities. Therefore Green budgetary policy represents a thorough job checking that avoids unnecessary expenditure. By reducing undeclared work, the
Introduction of a minimum wage, the abolition of environmentally harmful
Subsidies as the company car privilege or exemption of kerosene, projects waiving prestigious building, waiving
expensive and senseless armament projects and a further comparison

74

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Households Better

kleinerung the Bundeswehr and streamlining procurement we can save billions.
Green budgetary policy protects the climate. With a green
Climate change budget we want to reduce climate-damaging subsidies and so reduce the ecological debt. With the
More revenue, we intend to finance important Energiewende- and climate protection programs also solid and still contributing
afford to fiscal consolidation.
Green budgetary policy is gender-balanced. We want to
introduce the Federal Ministries gender budgeting, so that public funds are used in a more targeted, more equitable and more economical. For this we want to analyze, from which men and money
Women benefit to on this basis then Control Instruments
to develop for budgetary policy.
A functioning public infrastructure, a well-educated population and a functioning community are
Conditions for entrepreneurial success and to build personal wealth. The private wealth in Germany is in the
last 20 years very strongly rooted. The tax on high
Income and wealth and inheritance are in the past
two decades fallen. At the same time the public sector is on
debt all levels and underfunded structurally. It is
the time that we end this imbalance. We can at the
No longer put financing of public goods on unlimited growth or new debt. We must therefore revenue
the state increase moderately. The scope for this is in view
private wealth and income development since, Private
Prosperity has more again to finance the community
and thus contribute to the financing of its own requirements. Anyone who wants to govern with us, so you have to know to underfunding of the state in federal, state and local authorities by higher
Exit taxes on large incomes and wealth. We know that a pure more of government spending is not a sustainable solution. Also government spending must be efficient
and be scrutinized accordingly. We are all state
Undergo an efficiency audit spending programs. the aim is
thereby, reduce red tape at all government levels and develop-

75

Time for the green transformation

Households Better

making processes to streamline. Programs with a high administrative burden, we will verify principle.
We of Alliance '90 / The Greens offer only party
Program, are to be financed in the additional expenditure cuts, savings and tax increases. We say concretely: Some pay too little tax, whether on income, wealth or environmental consumption. Other cash subsidies from which the
Cost state billions, as the pharmaceutical and agricultural industries. Us
we do not hesitate to abolish unjust and harmful subsidies and individual stakeholders unreasonable reforms and savings. Who chooses GREEN, gets no financial policy
Pig in a poke, but clear and honest policy.
The citizens agree: We need a
capable of acting State - and for that we need sound finances.
Active policy on the ground is achieved by only municipalities that do not
Indebtedness and insufficient financial strength of their ability to act
are deprived of educational awakening succeed only with strong government finances and the social equality can only be achieved with a capable of acting federal budget. Let us create it finally a political
Majority. We therefore maintain revenue and expenditure in balance and ensure a fair financing of our society, on the part of all and carry strong shoulders more than
weak.
Sound fiscal policies opens up democratic leeway, thus making intervention possible. High debt
put the public sector lenders in financial markets. Debt reduction is therefore an essential element to
to let the primacy of politics again apply.
We want solid finances to create a bright future:
Those who invest now not in education, commits a serious omission. Whoever does not advance the ecological transformation, must
remove later with a lot of money environmental damage. Who allows that
People living in poverty, which ensures prospects. Who
today does not provide for sound public finances, the built us
a good future.

76

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

1. Ecological, fair and economically sound:
the green tax policy

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Households Better

Green tax policy is ecological because it helps that prices tell the ecological truth. But we want the ecological
Financial reform ahead. The share of revenue from environmental taxes in total tax revenues in recent years
However fallen due to inflation and thus the incentive to ecological behavior. This trend we want to reverse through a gradual reduction of environmentally harmful subsidies. This includes
a reform of the air traffic tax, motor vehicle tax and the taxation of diesel and heating products as well as ecological taxation of company cars and the coloring of exceptions
the eco-tax. We want the ecological financial reform also
expand non-energy raw materials to the polluting
Waste of fertilizers, building materials and packaging
to reduce. We sit down for an alignment of energy and
Environmental taxes in Europe.
Green tax policy is just because stronger shoulders bear more than weak. Thus it contributes to social equality. Access is often simple: If we clear out the tax law and
improve its quality, reduces the design possibilities
resourceful trickster control. At the same time we allow so the tax applicable tax law enforce - a contribution to fair taxation. A better tax enforcement and the fight against
Tax evasion is a central component of green tax policy.
Germany go it is estimated each year in tax revenue
Lost amounting to 150 billion euros, because the complicated tax law
Opened loopholes especially for high income because large
Companies can shift their tax burden and internationally
because the tax audit and tax investigation personnel of countries
is often provided insufficient or not consistently strikes
be driven, such as the contractual penalty and the
Damages from Toll Collect amounting to almost EUR 5 billion. There are
the honest citizens who therefore have to pay more taxes
receive or less public services. And there are the smaller and nationally operating companies, which are all the more loaded
than their larger competitors. To the multi- Steuertricksereien

77

Time for the green transformation

Households Better

to prevent national companies effective need
we have more transparency. We therefore call for country-specific disclosure requirements. Parallel to the political commitment to a binding EU regulation we want these disclosure requirements in a
also implement the first step nationally. We are committed to ensuring that
international companies their profits in countries
are taxed where they are earned. Tax havens
we want to effectively combat: To this end we will, inter alia, for
European blacklist and use of sanctions against uncooperative countries and banks.
Effective tax audit and tax investigation are in
Sense of fair taxation and a contribution to sound public
Finance, which takes into account the interests of all three levels. Us
sit down for personnel and organizational improvements
Tax administration and want a federal tax administration,
replaces the coexistence of the countries' tax administrations. The in
Financial Administration Act Federal competences are to be contained
use to uniform minimum standards in tax collection
define and Testing and enforce. Tax planning models to protect against abusive tax planning
notifiable and disclosed in order to prevent them. That
fiscal banking secrecy needs to be abolished and replaced by a fundamental control disclosure requirement for the banks, as
it already exists in most OECD countries today. Financial transactions in and out of low-tax countries are in France
subject to a penalty tax. We want all EU countries to
general rule making. Double taxation agreements must
an automatic exchange of information included and be designed so that they aggressive tax planning and harmful
Prevent tax competition between states. Therefore, we want to
pass into the German double taxation agreement from exemption to credit method.
We want to achieve a uniform tax burden on companies, regardless of size, industry or international orientation. Instruments against abuse and for the
Preservation of national tax revenue, we want to check, develop and possibly resharpening. After the last
Changes in black-yellow coalition in Funktionsverla-

78

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Households Better

delay taxation and the interest barrier must be ensured
that the original purpose and effect of this rise
Provisions will be achieved.
Green tax policy is economically rational. We are increasing
Taxes affect the economic activities only slightly, and
produce the so-financed public investment new
economic dynamism: The medium-sized locally directly benefited
of a powerful public infrastructure, such as a
good transport network, an access to broadband Internet and good
Schools.
A higher inheritance tax is incentive neutral because inherit nothing
has to do with power. From the advent of benefit only the countries, additional revenue can for much-needed investment
be used in better education and supervision offers. To
We also support the countries with higher revenue at its
Consolidation efforts. We strive to the emergence
from the inheritance tax to double to 8.6 billion euros. For this we end the unconstitutional and anti-social chaos of previous regulations. Let the favor of inheritances
Restrict and donations to other income, by fix the allowances back to a reasonable level
and so broaden the tax base. Small inheritances
we want to continue not to tax. Introduced by the grand coalition liberation of business assets is unjust and
unconstitutional. We rely instead on special exemptions and deferral rules to ease liquidity constraints in the transmission operation. Cases in which inheritance tax and
Would start capital levy parallel, we will consider so that duplicate charges and no substance taxation may occur, for example, by temporal Streckung.Statt
we need municipal investment backlog money for good policy
on site. In addition to its investments in income tax or value added tax
should the municipalities can count on their own resources: The
Reform of land tax we want to proceed swiftly. We have discussed a model in which the real estate tax by the
is to be calculated current, lump-market values.
Guard rails are for us GREEN: a constitutional solid, equitable
Taxation without ecological disincentives. The assessment rate is legal

79

Time for the green transformation

Households Better

with the municipalities. The business tax is a municipal
Economic control be extended with a broad tax base. This also applies to freelancers and attracts interest, rents
and royalties more than ever in the calculation zoom. There
they can count on the personal income tax, trade tax, they would no longer be charged as a rule, but in the future as
independent entrepreneurs to contribute to the financing of
make municipal infrastructure. At the crediting of trade tax on the income tax we are sticking. So will the tax revenues more stable and more evenly between municipalities
distributed. In a necessary discussion on the revision of
Fiscal equalization must question its own revenue sources
for those countries, the reorganization of financial equalization, problems of
Related actions and the transfer of financial resources between the
Levels, existing debt help for heavily indebted municipalities and a local minimum equipment especially against the background
the debt limit as soon as possible to clarify in another Federalism Commission between federal, state and local authorities.
The debt of states and municipalities has a height
achieved, which represents the fulfillment of general interest in question
necessary investment in education and climate prevented.
Many municipalities and states lack the money to the interest charges
shoulders and begin the eradication and comply with the harsh conditions of the debt brake. And why has green
Fiscal policy always the cash situation of all levels of government in view.
Our proposals for subsidy cuts and tax increase states and municipalities receive substantial extra revenue, they running for their expenses and debt service
and degradation urgently need. With the expiry of the solidarity surcharge we want as part of Federalism Commission III
a new legal basis for the levying of a surcharge
elaborate on the income tax. The aim is to build an old debt redemption fund, state and local relieved so that they reduce their structural deficits and the debt ceiling
able to comply. Until then, however, it is not clear that covenant
and countries need to pay high interest rates vary - although it
are in a de facto liability Community. Verfassungskonfor-

80

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Households Better

me Germany Bonds can be an instrument to organize a common borrowing.
The Commission notes that the Member States about 1 trillion euros are lost annually in tax revenue. That
makes clear: Europe's financial problems are not one-sided on the
Expenditure side. At the same time the distribution of the tax burden has
deteriorated. Fewer and fewer revenues coming from property taxes and corporate taxes. The European
Internal Market allows borderless economies, while the
Tax policy usually makes stop at borders. Tax avoidance
and tax fraud are the result.
We oppose a European tax pact, therefore those for compliance with the European fiscal pact
ensure that previously pushed in front of a fair burden sharing
have: a co-ordinated European capital levy is used to
Debt reduction. A common corporate tax base reduced Steuertricksereien and creates opportunities for smaller companies, then only one tax law applies. We want
also that international corporations and their tax payments
separated their profits, turnover and employees by country
must disclose. Then it is evident for everyone, if a company in Europe wirtschaftet, but its profits shifts in a low-tax country and it paid no taxes.
A tax on profits of 25% avoids ruinous
Tax competition. The EU tax rules need to be revised so that tax planning with the objective of low or
Non-taxation is prevented. We want to achieve that
the EU on minimum standards for taxation in relation
agrees with third countries. The fight against tax havens in the EU
a question of justice with massive fiscal impacts. The same applies to the automatic exchange of information at
Capital income to combat tax evasion. If
Banks repeatedly and seriously violated tax laws, should EU-wide threaten them the license withdrawal. The tax liability
we want as the US couple to the Nationality and prevent tax avoidance by emigration. Ultimately, also needs
Ecotax a European foundation to contain, for example, fuel tourism.

81

Time for the green transformation

Households Better

Just tax policy makes the added value of European
Union clearly. National sovereignty is at this point often only
still an empty shell. Together we can achieve more than with
a tax policy juxtaposition.

2. Strong shoulders create more than
weak: the green income tax
The amount of the income tax rates in the past knew
Years, almost only one direction: down. At the upper end of the tariff that was neither fiscally reasonable nor socially equitable: The
State debt has increased as well as the Einkommensund wealth concentration in the sequence. To counteract this, is the top tax rate to 45% at 60,000 euros to
taxable income be extended linearly, then at
80,000 euros to be at 49%. At the same time we want to raise the tax-free subsistence level for all at least 8,700 euros.
This net remain about 3 billion euros more revenue for the federal government,
State and local governments. So all charged with an income below
60,000 euros per year less, the rest more. The tax increase
for less than three million frequent earners funded so the tax cuts for many low-income earners.
But there is even more to simplify the income tax. The numerous exemptions and subsidies are not always justified. For this purpose, we are introducing a negative
Check Income Tax. Because simple is often just because
only the rich and big business can afford resourceful accountant.

3. Remove the debt: the green capital levy
A high concentration of wealth is explosive for social cohesion and fiscally an impertinence. During the
Sitting on State breathtakingly high mountains of debt, is growing
private wealth seemingly unstoppable. It's just when
the community obtained a post at the very high capacity,

82

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Households Better

In order to ease the debt mountain. Only in this way we come from
gigantic pyramid of debts and assets, which has plunged the world economy in recent years into chaos down.
The unique and temporary property tax in accordance with Article 106 of the Basic Law is over several years around 100 in total
Introducing billion euros. Money exclusively in the degradation
Federal debt flows. The increased massively by stimulus packages and bank bailouts alone during the chancellorship of Angela Merkel by around 500 billion euros. The bank bailout has not
recently the property of the wealthy secured. It is therefore
fair and equitable, of them to demand a contribution. The green
Property tax is less than 1% of citizens with each
meet a net worth of more than EUR 1 million. For business assets, we limit the discharge to a maximum of 35% of
Profits and prevent companies are taken in their substance.
Our goal remains the medium term, the revival of a constitutional compliant wealth tax, the revenue from which alone the
Countries deserve. The wealth tax will be levied by the tax leakage. You should at the base of
Capital levy tie, as well as avoiding these a substance taxation of business assets and as little as possible
Create an administrative burden. This we will at all levels
forge ahead and in the Bundesrat and the Bundestag majorities
a constitutional reintroduction of wealth tax
Find and use.

4. Unfair tax Schlup fl Öcher stuff:
green subsidy cuts
VAT reductions such as for hotels, fast
Food, cut flowers or lifts we abolish. This is a bureaucracy-reduction program, which brings together more than EUR 3 billion additional revenues for all levels of government. At the same time we stand for
European Reform, a value added tax. Through greater harmonization and a reversal of tax liability (reverse charge) we fight fraud and eliminate bureaucracy. This

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

83

Time for the green transformation

Households Better

brings additional revenues to the budgets of all EU Member States,
which according to the EU Commission an annual triple-digit billions
escapes through VAT fraud. The melting ecologically
harmful subsidies - for example, the company car taxation, air traffic privileges or exceptions for the eco-tax - bringing € 7.5bn.
The withholding tax on earned income preferred capital against making it a privileged status at the expense of the rentier
Generality. This subsidy of investments towards
real investment and borrowing against equity
abolished heard and capital income taxed progressively again. The deductibility of salaries and bonuses as operating expenses, we want to be limited to 500,000 euros, thus high
Income will not be subsidized.
Afford With the unification of the take-down and favoring provisions in the income tax and social insurance
we contribute to the reduction of bureaucracy. We want to examine the extent to
existing tax deductions are replaced by tax credits
can, so that the tax savings at the actual cost
and is not measured at the tax progression. We Greens want to
Federal-level initiate a process, which lays down the principles required by the Basic Law of detachment of the old law government services. In addition, we will negotiate with the affected religious communities.
There is an imbalance in the family benefits.
Has lack of investment in education and care infrastructure
reduced the permeability of the society and exacerbating the discrimination against women. We want to eliminate this imbalance
- Instead of marriage we want to encourage children. The Ehegattensplitting we therefore want by individual taxation with transferable
Replace subsistence. The acquisition enhances incentives for women
and thus makes an important contribution to an independent livelihood, thereby reducing the risk of poverty among women and families. Us
want the same deal with existing and new marriages there. This can
be achieved primarily through a cap of the splitting advantage,
of the burden of the reform at the beginning of Ehegattensplitting
in households with an income of at least together
Would limit 60,000 euros. We currently regard as realistic,

84

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Households Better

this splitting cover gradually degrade within a decade. We will examine whether, as the our reforms
Quality of life of families and in particular the employment situation
changed by women. Revenue that missed the state through the Ehegattensplitting previously, we want to fund good
Kitas, all-day schools and use for a child's basic security.
The children basic security may contribute to an excessive burden of large families through the melting of splitting
to avoid. Women existing under the regulations
have dropped out of the profession, we want a comprehensive
Action Programme facilitate re-entry into professional life.

5. Another policy is possible: the green
Spending priorities in 2014
Green budgetary policy keeps degree. It is clear that the debt limit applies
as well as the European stability criteria. We are GREEN
reliably. We have shown in communities and countries often.
We promise fiscally nothing that is not to keep. Therefore
we say what we can fund immediately, what we have to push time and reduced where subsidies and other expenditures
can be. Good policy consists of the courage priorities
set. We have this courage.
We want to advance the green change - for an ecological awakening of the economy and for good work. We argue
for a social and democratic awakening. We describe not only the goal but also the way there. Leitmotifs are: participation, social equity, ecological restructuring,
Equality and global justice.
The bottom line is in 2014 as a result of taking green improvements of subsidy cuts and savings 12 billion euros
Household effective green projects. The force
Financial Plan of the Federation forms the basis for this calculation. The
Prudence following we create a buffer for interest rate and economic risks. The concrete projects from climate protection and labor market policies to help integrate in the communities found
in the relevant chapters of the electoral program.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

85

Time for the green transformation

Who chooses GREEN ...

Households Better

• gets an honest and supportive fiscal policies, thus
public services are financed finally again without debt.
• doing what for debt reduction. The green capital levy
flows to 100% in the debt.
• can be sure that the federal government, states and communities of
Green financial policy benefit. Only in this way is an active policy
possible on site.
• knows that not everything is affordable at the same time. Our
Priorities are balanced by expected and thus a
reliable offer to the voters.
• can be sure that we can call anyone financially.

Key projects
Reduce government debt - to introduce property tax
Germany has amassed a huge debt. Alone
between 2007 and 2012, the national debt by 500 billion to
grown over 2 trillion euros. Our tax dollars are used to
Debt service needed. You are missing the social and ecological reconstruction, which prepare our company for the future
should. We are the only party that makes a concrete and socially balanced proposal for debt reduction. We carry a
temporary capital levy, which the richest one percent of
German population concerns. The business assets we protect
and a substance taxation is avoided. The revenue this

86

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

used solely to reduce the debts prior. To reduce
we the public debt.

Households Better

Low taxes for low and middle class
- Equitable income tax reform
The current income tax system is unfair. We therefore raise the basic allowance to 8,700 euros. That happens
especially the low-paid benefits. Earners are little more
contribute to the financing of public services. We therefore want the top tax rate for income from 80,000 euros to 49%
increase. In addition, we want investment income taxed like any other income. Until now, capital gains, whether 10,000
or EUR 1 million, determined taxed at 25%, which for no reason
compared to income from labor privileged. All that less than
Have 60,000 euros in annual income, are relieved. Who more
deserves, carrying in the future more to the financing of our community. That's fair.

Environmental Fiscal Reform to continue -
reduce environmentally harmful subsidies
In tax law teem still before ecologically harmful tax subsidies. The Federal Environment Agency estimates the
Volume of these environmentally harmful subsidies up to 48
Billion euros. We will change that. While we can not do everything at
a blow to abolish, but the melting of environmentally harmful subsidies - for example, the company car taxation,
air traffic privileges or exemptions from environmental tax
- Takes us in the next legislature € 7.5bn. That
reduces the consumption of environmental resources and improving the financing of our community.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

87

Time for the green transformation

E. partaking of good work
How do we create work under good conditions for all

Partaking of good work

Employment has a central role in our society.
Even volunteer work and family is an important area. Good
Gainful employment is the basis for an adequate income and
for safety, it is also a prerequisite for development and recognition. Healthy working conditions, strong workers' rights, employment protection and participation are for information us
Characteristics of good work. Job comes from appeal - a good job
may mean fulfillment. Equally is a lousy job a great
Burden. And unfortunately, the lousy jobs have increased massively.
Jobs that are adequate and provide security,
for more and more people out of reach, because new jobs arise largely limited, in the agency, as a low-wage jobs
or as a mini-jobs. Angela Merkel has this devastating development
not only permitted, but weighted with their policies.
The number of unemployed has indeed significantly reduced at first glance. But when you look closely it becomes clear: The
Labor market is deeply divided. It is split between employees and nearly three million unemployed. It is split between people who have a relatively secure job, and precarious workers. It is split between women and
Men, since women for equal work and work unequal
Get salary. He is split because there are many elderly and disabled people who have contributed their professional and life experience
want, just nobody asks. It is split between people who may take up employment, and those who
are excluded from the labor market because of their origin. Him
is split between people who suffer from congestion, and
those who would like to work more. And he is still divided between East and West Germany, particularly with regard to
the number of unemployed people as well as the wage level.
While the income rise of a few continues to sink the real wages of many employees for more than a

88

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Partaking of good work

Decade. The gap between small and large income
comes apart, and in many occupational groups we are experiencing a
Deterioration of working conditions and payment. And
still hanging in barely a country social origin, educational opportunities and professional success as closely as ours. It is
something came into the slides. Participation and advancement opportunities for all are no longer self-evident.
In society there is already a broad consensus that any
and everyone can live well and adequate of their own work
got to. Let's tackle the last to.
Want with our green economy and labor market policy
we overcome the divisions in the labor market, provide good and safe work for all and solve rise blockages.
We stand up for participation and that people can get involved - at the workplace and the job center.
For that we want better labor rights, strong trade unions and unemployed for a job placement at eye level.
We come to the doors for the jobs of the future - by
a green industrial policy and the construction of a green infrastructure through the expansion of education and social services.

1. Good work needs fair wages and safety
We must finally on fair conditions in the labor market
come. Work poverty is unacceptable. 20% of employees work in Germany for a low-wage, of which 6.8 million for less than 8.50 euros per hour. Many need a
second job. And more than 330,000 full-time employees in addition to their wages are dependent on ALG II benefits. There are still
Contractual wages, of which no man can live as the hairdresser in
Thuringia with 3.18 euros per hour. Many people work as employees in the temporary and are without prospect of a permanent position. Tariff escape increases also aggravated by work contracts.
Half of the new contracts is limited.
We again need social barriers in the labor market.
That is why we argue for a nationwide legal minimum

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

89

Time for the green transformation

Partaking of good work

mum wage of at least € 8.50. The exact amount to be determined by a minimum wage commission, composed
from trade unions, employers' associations and experts from
science. The minimum wage is taking into account the
Employment effects, inflation and macroeconomic
Adjusted impact of the Commission. At the same time it must
be easier to explain industry-specific minimum wages and sectoral collective agreements generally binding. This will strengthen
the collective bargaining system and collective combat flight. This will benefit the employees and the collective farms faithful alike.
Still, women earn on average in Germany
22% less than their male counterparts - including, among other things
because professions where mainly women work, often not their needs are remunerated accordingly. To end the discrimination against women in the labor market, we call for a
Equal Pay Act with binding regulations, effective
Sanctions and a right of collective action. We want to
Principle of 'equal pay for equal work and work "with
Fill life and at the same time enhance the typical female professions socially. With a Gender Equality Act for the private sector enterprises and social partners are to active measures
are committed to equality.
25% of employees are in Germany now atypically
employed, nearly three times as many women as men. These are 7.8
Million people with either small part-time jobs,
Temporary work, with temporary employment or mini-jobs on the
Trying to make ends meet. There are also bogus self
and retrieval forces. Of course, not all of these jobs problematic.
However, it appears that these jobs are often insecure, poorly remunerated, leading to poverty in old age and a lot
rarely represent bridges in auskömmliche, secure employment.
The rise of precarious work not only for the
Employees negative impact but also consequences for the
Working world as a whole. In establishments where more and more permanent workers being displaced by external agency staff or work contract employees since fragmenting the workforce. Particularly
are these forms of employment, the participation, the

90

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking of good work

Protection against unfair dismissal, collective standards and thus social protection
Employees bypassed. So are collective achievements, which have been hard fought for a long time, only to
paper. The decades-old social consensus of social partnership and the principles of the social market economy be terminated so.
Many new jobs only as temporary places
or as a low-wage jobs in my work contract. Clearly, companies need
a degree of flexibility for order peaks. But the agency must
are designed fairly. We call GREEN that agency staff
at least the same wages received as master workers,
with effect from the first day, and in addition a flexible bonus.
Temps and contract workers should have the same rights
as permanent employees and the works council in a Entleihbetrieben
improved participation. What is needed is a clear
Distinction between temporary work and work contracts as well as effective
Controls, for dubious service contract structures may
not replace temporary and collectively paid work.
When the temporary jobs are showing another Maldevelopment
in the labor market. Many people pull themselves out of a short-term job to the next. They are practically permanent in the probationary period and can hardly the necessary security for their life planning
. win That affects in particular young people. We want
reduce the limit reasons and the time limitation without objective reason
abolish. We want to avoid in particular in education,
that long-term tasks are covered by fixed-term contracts and fees. The public sector exerts a role model for
fair, modern and sustainable employment. Moreover, we stand with the existing protection against dismissal, however, applies
to close existing gaps, for example in the Bagatellkündigungen.
New answers requires the change also in the social. We of Alliance '90 / The Greens want the current unemployment in the medium term to a comprehensive
Labor insurance rebuild. All workers, including flexible workers and solo self-employed, should be included.
Claims for unemployment benefits may also be discontinuous login workers when at least four of 24 months Posts

91

Time for the green transformation

have paid. In addition to hedging unemployment is the
Focus on green employment insurance-occupational qualifications, especially for people at risk of unemployment.

Partaking of good work

2. Good work needs an effective
Occupational Safety and strong participation
Good work is only if they do not make ill. The transformation of
Working environment leads to new strains. Mental illnesses
have become the main reason for early retirement. Women
disproportionately affected. More personal responsibility, pure goal orientation in free labor organization - although that comes
many opposed, but others stressed the constant deadline pressure and
the long hours that are not compensated. But many workers also suffer from rigid specifications, little flexibility, too little variety and increasing
Intensity. An increasingly onerous development for many workers is the constant accessibility via
Phone or email even outside the working hours or the increase of shift and night work. For us Greens ie on the one hand, that the Occupational Safety and Health on the new threats towards
needs to be revised. We therefore call for an anti-stress regulation to protect against workplace stress. On the other hand
To sensitize supervisors and social partners more effectively and in
to enable to identify new health risks and
fix. We want to promote measures of workplace health promotion, even where precarious employment, part-time and temporary work dominate.
Good work for all is only possible with a strong participation to
create. The proven right, to participate in operational and business decisions, we want to preserve and
expand. We Greens will strive in the next parliamentary term that the participation rights in protected
Training and employment facilities, as in the sheltered workshops, developed and improved
become. The participation rights must be the changing
Be world of work. This applies to the use of temporary

92

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking of good work

and contracts for work in the company and we want the joint participation in supervisory boards of companies from 1,000 employees in foreign legal forms and the expansion of
Codetermination rights of works councils in restructuring.
The European works councils, we want to strengthen and make the cross-border participation to the core of the European social model. Likewise, we want the same rights of participation regardless of the sector, including in the public
Area and ideologically oriented enterprises. In addition, we will introduce an Employee Data Protection, of the altered work processes
will meet in an information society, while the dependence of employees taken into account.
Workers in religious institutions subject to the peculiarities of the ecclesiastical labor law.
Thus they are not essential to workers' rights.
This practice comes within the churches, more and more criticism.
Because loyalty demands of employers and outside
Annunciation of areas that are private to the lifestyle
his employees relate, do not fit in a democratic society.
We are with the churches, trade unions and other
socially parties enter into a dialogue, so that the situation of employees improves. We want the church
Employees outside the proclamation areas the same
Rights as other workers get well. Therefore, we want for all employment relationships beyond the range
the proclamation abolish the ecclesiastical labor law. This includes the right to the formation of works councils and the fundamental right
to freedom of association, including the freedom to strike. The General Equal Treatment Act (AGG), we will change with the aim of
that its provisions as in other trend companies on
Jobs in church institutions Application
find.

93

Time for the green transformation

3. Good work needs Arrivals

Partaking of good work

More and more people are suspended or excluded in the labor market. We reverse this trend, by indulging in the blockades
break down. With minijobs expectations were connected to the
Bridge work in the labor market. That is not the case. Nearly seven
Million people currently have a mini job. Two thirds of them are women. While not all of them are in precarious situations.
There are students, pensioners and students who earn this. For many, however, the mini-job is a poverty trap, at the latest
in old age. For a mini-job is not possible an independent livelihood and the accumulation of own pension rights. Many want to work like more, but do not get another job. For others, the change and something to work more hours,
lead the social cause they deserve no more. Also
ALG II Benefits claimants want to work more often, of state aid
be independent and stand on their own through their work. The so-called AufstockerInnen that despite working on ALG II
are instructed to earn in their jobs - often even in full-time
- Not enough to live on to. The goal of our policy is to
unto all people the opportunity to make a living
own responsibility to achieve and not to be dependent on government support. From his own work to live
can, which means a large piece of dignity and justice.
In a first step, we want it to contain the Mini Jobs
and the situation of the current mini-job employees immediately noticeable
improve. With the introduction of a statutory minimum wage are we lowest wages of sometimes less than 5 euros an hour
make it impossible and automatically feed an effective maximum hours limit for mini-jobs. We also emphasize the
Out clause of the pension system, so that in the future with
a mini job always pension rights are acquired. About
To prevent mini jobbers may be deprived of their labor rights and assets, part-time employees must continue in the contract in writing of the
their legal rights to be informed. In addition, the
Farm checks reinforced.

94

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking of good work

In a second step, we will reform the entire low-wage sector comprehensively, push back precarious employment
replace and mini-jobs through social security payments. Our reform proposals do not aim at the elimination of perquisites for pupils, students and
Pensioners. Our goals are covered by social security and
to promote employment and minimum living to eliminate employment and career blockages, especially for women. For want
We specifically relieve small income, so that it is finally worth,
to work longer, without causing undue burdens
the workers come. By simultaneously strengthened upstream social security systems is not only the exit
the unemployment benefit II reference facilitated, but also the municipalities significantly relieved financially. To prevent just
slip household services again in the undeclared work, to the simplified registration procedure for household
Services are maintained in a private household. Our reform-employed are more easily than before their livelihood autonomously and independently from the basic security system
can deny. So that more people get the chance to
an independent life outside the ALG II bureaucracy.
Origin, color, disability, age, religion, sexual identity and gender may play no role. The reality is today
another. Existing structures are solidified. The starting chances of too many young people with and without migration background are born worse than that of their peers.
It starts in kindergarten and school and is finding a job in the Ausbildungsund continued. But even Aliens Act discrimination obstruct access to the qualified labor market.
Especially young refugees must of access to education
and a qualified career entry can be facilitated. Next
linguistic challenges and social backgrounds are often
covert racism and prejudice as a disincentive to successfully gain a foothold. We Greens call us with all his strength against
discrimination. Why should anonymised application procedures, see a wider dissemination in the public service.

95

Time for the green transformation

Partaking of good work

People encounter in this country for many reasons to blockages and obstacles. Good public institutions of
can be used all, are the key to overcoming.
Good vocational schools and training centers are indispensable for
the people and the business location Germany. In several
Professional groups is the dissatisfaction with the quality of training
very high. We want to control the quality of education
improve the chambers. In addition, works councils themselves should be given the opportunity to initiate a process with questionable educational quality of a company. In addition, we are the
Need legally regulated minimum remuneration for
Check training because trainees are abused in some industries as cheap labor. The system of dual
Training has been proven, but it is reaching its limits. Us
put on Dual Plus. We are thus expanding the conventional system
dual training to inter-company learning venues, in particular
for disadvantaged young people. Despite all concerns about the threat of
Shortage of skilled labor have no black and yellow still employers
previously taken action, the quality and fairness of internships
to boost. Also for internships must clear minima
apply - written contract, certificate, a minimum allowance and a fixed time limit.
Although now at all corners and ends the professionals
lack of access to the labor market is for many people still
still closed. We want to the different skills,
Strengths and skills of these people build. Particularly
Low-skilled workers, single parents, migrants, people with disabilities, younger and older, we want
open up new opportunities. A labor market policy that integrates these people effectively and fairly, focuses on tailor-made and individual support strategies, which also reached interim targets
count as successes. Our goal is to achieve sustainable labor market integration and not short-term statistical effects. Many unemployed
have little prospect of a new job because they do not or not
are more adequately qualified. You we want to with more retraining and training opportunities in the way future professionals
and open areas of work with staff shortages.

96

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking of good work

Too many people are permanently despite good economic without
Chance in the labor market. Therefore, we want to create participation and work with a reliable social labor instead
Unemployment fund. For this to be converted into active service the passive. For the unemployment benefit II and the
Cost of accommodation is a wage for a contributory employment. Jobs in the social labor market can be offered by all employers.
So we say goodbye to the criteria of "additional sensitivity"
the "public interest" and the "competitive neutrality". At
their place is taken of local consensus. With our social labor market, we make long-term unemployed a new, reliable and
voluntary offer with perspective. It is the opportunity for those who
that were left of the Merkel coalition over the years in the lurch.
Good work needs professional participation of people with disabilities. People with disabilities are still disproportionately affected by unemployment and lack of training opportunities. The UN Disability Convention
establishes the right of people with disabilities, their livelihood with work to earn in an accessible for them
and open labor market and work environment. Instead, there
for many people with disabilities in Germany a strong automatism which it sooner or later in the special world of
Workshop for the disabled leads. We want to strengthen the alternatives to the workshops and focus on operating integrated
Activities in all forms such as integration enterprises and departments, supported employment, job assistance, personal
Budget for work, power offsets, but also outdoor workplaces for workshop employees. We support an increase in the
Employment rate a 6%.
Women with disabilities experience an additional discrimination on the training and labor market. Therefore, women-friendly environment in education, employment and must
Rehabilitation centers are created which also needs
consider of mothers with disabilities. We are on it
work towards that professional participation of women with disabilities
significantly improved in vocational and education that offers vocational rehabilitation participation and further to the needs of women

97

Time for the green transformation

aligned with disabilities and appropriate training opportunities are promoted in attractive and promising professions.

4. Good work needs good job placement
Partaking of good work

A good job centers is a key to people in good work
bring to. Job centers provide are often not half of what
we expect from them. People are often not encouraged,
but treated according to "Scheme F". We have to change that. The
Job Center must hang flexible local labor market programs
and they can connect with local employment initiatives. The Job Center, which we imagine the people listening,
supports them on their way, recognizes the potential of people
and helps them to take the next step.
Employment agencies and job seekers shall together
Determine which training or which job is right. The following applies
to encourage the initiative of jobseekers by their
Suggestions are taken seriously and they are granted the right to choose between appropriate actions. We also suggest, independent ombudsman in all job centers
establish who mediate in conflicts.
Actually promote rather than just calling, the motto should be.
For the funding instruments of the SGB II are individual and align more practical. The counselors at the job center have only
so many cases that they know who is sitting in front of them, and tailor-made
Solutions can develop. Access to training and qualification support them in their advisory work. Schematic
Recommendations, as the basis of traditional gender roles,
belong to the past. This is not unrealistic vision
that is a justified claim. The agencies and job center
must all unemployed access to appropriate qualifications,
Promotion services, retraining and training opportunities open up. We want a reliable foundation for promotion back
Unemployed permit, because in the past this was a recipe for success. After the financial clearcutting of black and yellow at
employment promotion we want for establishing and qualification

98

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Partaking of good work

provide sufficient funds available again. New criteria for
the allocation of funding measures must ensure that the
Quality of integration and educational work is at the forefront
and not prices. The Job Center is a crucial piece of the puzzle
in our institutions strategy for justice. Only
a good job centers creates real opportunities for participation.

5. Good work in new jobs
Green policy creates good conditions for more jobs. Us
but want a good job, so fair wages, decent working conditions and equal pay for work of equal value
of men and women. The green change in the economy is
a job machine. The show hundreds of thousands of new jobs in renewable energy, by building renovation at
Craft or engineering offices. The energy transition to 100%
Renewables will create new jobs. Are already working on
1.4 million people in the field of environmental technologies. By
a green change in the economy, in energy, energy efficiency,
Transport, heating and industry can it by 2025 up to 2.4
Million jobs. Again, our claims to apply good
Job.
The quality of our social life chooses especially in education and health sectors. In both
Branches infected the potential for more jobs: In an aging society is an increasing number of people on services
instructed by the Shopping Service to skilled nursing services.
Even the formation of departure from the day care center on the University to
lifelong learning is to lift only with more staff. For a
quality full offer of early childhood care, the expansion
the all-day schools and universities better it needs a lot of new
Educators, professionals and teachers.
Many of these jobs are publicly funded services.
We ensure through our fiscal policy for a solid financing
the public coffers. So we can realize a more extensive Kita offer and expand the all-day schools. Lack

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

99

Time for the green transformation

Partaking of good work

Childcare is today far too often an obstacle to a
(Full-time) employment.
Citizens Insurance lowers health insurance contributions and thus the non-wage costs. So labor is cheaper - and
thereby more attractive to employers and employees.
At the same time, but also creates more space for employment in
the health care industry. By lowering of taxes new jobs are being created mainly in the service or in labor-intensive sectors, which are not ent so far because of the cost
could.

6. Good work for good professionals
While about three million people are still unemployed,
prevails in parts of the economy acute shortage of skilled workers. This
Deficiency is an obstacle to the development of the German economy. Both regions with full employment as well as in underdeveloped rural areas have significant business
Difficulties, engineers, doctors, but also nurses
and to find educators. To cope with the shortage of skilled workers, it is not enough to rely on a single instrument. Locals and immigrants, young and old, as well as employees and
Unemployed should not be pitted against each other. In addition, training must increasingly take place in the areas where skilled workers are in demand. We want a
mobilize clever mix of education, skills and support professionals unused potentials. Therefore, we must all
Employable allow to qualify their competencies and potentials accordingly. We do this through good education, customer- and competence-based job placement, on
enhanced professional development, access to post-qualification
and lifelong learning, supported by a continuing education student loans. Also, a uniform and non-bureaucratic recognition
of professional qualifications obtained abroad and the expansion
the Nachqualifizierungsangebots necessary. Requisite qualification measures must be adapted to the needs of migrants and in different life

100

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking of good work

benslagen be accessible and affordable. We allow
all people a professional perspective of their qualifications in accordance with and reduce the shortage of skilled workers.
An important lever is the better integration of women in the
Labour Market. We want to acquire and disincentives for obstacles
Women, like income splitting and - as part of the citizens' insurance - the free coinsurance degrade, and so discriminatory structures that greater female employment and
an independent livelihood in the way, overcome.
In addition, we demand a fixed rate of 50% for
Women on supervisory boards. Even the widespread expansion of
Kitas, all-day schools as well as outpatient and partial inpatient
Care services and care facilities is of great importance,
in particular women in their desire to pursue a gainful employment to support. The aim is the integration of women in
the labor market no unilateral adjustment to a work term
be that a lot of time for work and little time for family, commitment
and includes leisure. Especially with the inclusion of women in the
Labor market and the more equitable distribution of caring work
between men and women, we need new time models. Us
follow the model of a full-time part-time job for women close
and men who also leaves room for justice distributed custody and maintenance work and for career breaks.
Our society needs the older employees, because
they have through their experience and knowledge play an important role in the operation. The economy needs to rethink and put more back on the experienced employees. Required
are age and aging fair working conditions because of demographic change is especially a problem when the
Not keep employees until retirement. Therefore, the need to
Skills, strengths and opportunities of workers in the
Working conditions take center stage. The policy must ensure
the legal framework specify.
But alone the better promotion of domestic workers will not be enough to meet the increasing demand for skilled workers. Against this background, we want to
facilitate the influx of foreign professionals and transparent
shape. These mainly include the introduction of a liberal and

101

Time for the green transformation

transparent points system and establishing a real
Welcoming culture.

Who chooses GREEN ...

Partaking of good work

• agrees for a nationwide legal minimum wage
of at least 8.50 euros per hour.
• receives fair rules for temporary work, contained a time limitations
and limited mini-jobs.
• relieves small incomes and opened more people
Chances of an independent life without ALG II.
• improves the rights of jobseekers in job centers.
• strengthens the rights of employees in church institutions.
• opens up new prospects for long-term unemployed people through
the construction of a social labor market.

Key projects
Low wages abolish -
introduce a general minimum wage
Many work and still can not make a living. We accept the intolerable dumping wages, increased state
must not go longer. That is why we are calling for a general minimum wage of at least € 8.50. The exact amount
the minimum wage is set by a minimum wage commission,
composed of trade unions, employers' organizations and
Experts from the scientific community. At the same time the possibility to

102

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

opportunities are created for more industry-specific minimum wages and declared universally applicable collective agreements, which then for all
Employees of a branch apply. This will strengthen the system of collective agreements and collective combat flight. Only in this way we can make it, that
all can live by their work.

Partaking of good work

Quit wage dumping - equal pay for agency
Many new jobs only as temporary places.
While companies need flexibility for peak periods, but
the agency must be configured just and the negative developments in the agency we reject. We call for "equal pay
for equal work "from the first day. Temporary work may not the
Wage dumping serve. Temporary workers are not second-class workers. You should from day one the same rights
have as the core workforce.

Work must not cause illness -
Develop occupational health and safety
Many workers experience in professional rigid specifications, little flexibility and too little variety. On the other hand, some
Working conditions today are increasingly characterized by high flexibility requirements, unforeseen working hours and of the need for constant accessibility. We are together with the
Social partners, the requirements of the statutory labor protection
adapt to the new psychological stress. To protect the
Workers and with a view to demographic change are age and aging fair working conditions, the need of the hour,
because the employees are to work well until retirement
be able. So we create work that does not get sick.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

103

Time for the green transformation

F. partaking of good education
As we nurseries and schools, colleges and
Make education better

Partaking of good education

Education opens the future. Learn to understand the world know what
happening around you, make your own life, responsibility for themselves and others take over, realize wishes and goals - it should be open to all people. Therefore, the
free access to education a central question Justice. He is allowed to
not at the origin, not to the circumstances and not on
Fail purses parents.
We demand a part of the population with our projects
in taxation policy from some. But in return, we are committed
to make us, together with states and municipalities, our day care centers and schools to inspiring learning and living places where
every child adopted by his talents and his potential
is and can form the best possible way. And we will ensure more open access to the training, studies and continuing education
and to facilitate the transitions.
Education is a prerequisite for a life in freedom. It is the
Key for the free development of personality and a prerequisite for self-determination and participation. At the same time education is a
Investment in the future of our society and must not be designed primarily according to economic aspects. We care
that it remains not a privilege but truly open to all.
Education should be based on the interests of the child.
Education creates justice. We argue for an inclusive and
a socially just education system, in which all participate. For
permeable society that degrades social barriers and affirms the diversity of people.
Education creates democracy. We stand for open educational institutions in which the interference of learners, teachers, parents and social environment is desired. These include for
us and institutional elements as written student bodies and equal representation committees at schools and universities.

104

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Education begins in the family. Therefore, it is important to us, parents
to strengthen - through the development of early support and family counseling, through parent-child centers as a support structure for all
Parents and early language courses. Good educational institutions work closely with the parents and are networked. Creates education
Future, for our children, for ourselves. But first we need to
create a future for our educational institutions.

Partaking of good education

1. Renewal of educational institutions
The quality of day-care centers and schools is central when it comes to
Participation opportunities for children to improve. How important is it that
To strengthen educational institutions directly and without detours, shows
the failed education and participation package of the Federal Government
- A majority of the money comes not to where it needed
becomes. Instead of strengthening nurseries and schools, financed the education and
Participation package new bureaucratic structures and private tutoring.
The high number of educational losers is frightening: it can
be no justice and no clear form, as long as
each / r applies fifth 15-year-old as a functional / r illiterate, every / r
twentieth youth school and almost every / r Fourth aborts the training or studying, while nearly 300,000 adolescents are parked in queues of the transition sector and over
two million young adults have no vocational qualification.
These are figures that require a new education initiative for a
Education system that not only cognitive skills but a
Variety of skills taught and promotes. The German education system suffers from a power and justice problem.
Good educational institutions are included, they show respect and
Appreciation of the full range of children and young people. No one shall be discriminated against in our educational institutions. They exploit the potential of this diversity for a
including education, providing individual support and cooperative
Learning offers. Not the children need to be adapted to the school, but the school's learning and development needs
of children. Kitas are already pioneers of inclusion. In many places,
it is normal that children with and without disabilities together

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

105

Time for the green transformation

Partaking of good education

go to Kita. We want that this possibility in future all
Children have the opportunity. We want to empower kindergartens and schools to
build mixed educational and socio-educational teams,
to open for people with disabilities and the diversity of all pupils deal constructively,
established views and special needs schools are in perspective dispensable or open for all children. Not least of
Germany signed the UN Convention on the Rights of
People with Disabilities obliges us to. Of this
Claim is the German school system still far away. this applies
also for universities and adult education institutions.
We want to change this.
Good educational institutions are participatory. There are children,
Pupils and students not planned but
You can get involved and help shape and this is desirable.
Such devices understand parents as partners in the company
the young people and offer support and advice. One
Culture of cooperation on an equal footing with other educational or
extracurricular facilities must self-evident
become. Schools and colleges have a democratic constitution,
their bodies have equal representation. Pupils or students should through self-governing structures such as student councils
or written student bodies are represented. This includes also addressing human rights and anti-democratic tendencies and ideologies. Good educational institutions bring good results.
The work in day care centers and schools is extremely responsibly. Many professionals meet this responsibility with great commitment. In order to fulfill these responsibilities
to know how they need framework conditions that support them in their high level of commitment. Educators have a very challenging task. However, the social recognition lags
afterwards. Also to low pay reflects the claim and
the power fluctuation. We want the countries assist in
Qualification of educators who in large numbers
are urgently needed. We need minimum standards for
Specialist-child relation, to improve the quality of the day care centers.
Dual training can be a good way even with educators,

106

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Partaking of good education

to make the profession more attractive. Perspective should in each group
an expert work, which was formed at the university level. We need a training culture that "lifelong learning"
serious also for educators and teachers said. It must
Gender competence, intercultural competence, awareness regarding
the diversity of sexual identities, forms self-directed learning
and therapeutic and special pedagogical knowledge be part of education and training. These include for us even more professionals from immigrant backgrounds, with their own disability and more men
particularly for day care and primary education. Generally, a
comprehensive teacher training with the same period of study for all
Types of schools our goal.
The responsibility for good day care centers, but even more for schools
and colleges rests with the Länder and municipalities. The Confederation may support and co-finance if you
lets him. This will need a ban on cooperation between the federal and
Länder are repealed.
We want to support the digitization of educational,
to promote access to knowledge. Teaching and learning materials should
are provided under free licenses to knowledge monopolies
break and the diverse usability of appropriate content
to support. Proviso should the standards for open education
Its Resources. The vocational schools should be developed into centers of excellence for sustainability.
According to the UN Decade "Education for Sustainable Development"
we need day care centers, schools, vocational schools and universities,
convey the skills of analysis, evaluation and participation of major ecological and social challenges of this century.

2. enable success: good day care centers and schools
Object of educational institutions is to maintain enthusiasm and thirst for knowledge, and children in all their diversity must be
promote. Right here but our education system fails too often.
The opportunities for children and young people to educate themselves and their lives
to take in hand himself later, are not the same for everyone.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

107

Time for the green transformation

Partaking of good education

Worse: Although this injustice is known will change to
Slowly something about it. Education poverty is inherited because the German
Education system fails because decouple educational success of socioeconomic background. Far too often, is already fixed at birth, where the path of the child leads. Children and adolescents
fighting from low-income or uneducated families
often with prejudices and inadequate funding, especially
If you have an immigrant background. But we do not want
Child leave. We want to clear away blockages and routes
demonstrate that bring the potential of all children and youth to develop.
For this we need first more and better day-care centers,
to encourage children early may, and better qualified
Childminders. We want the rates as of August 2013
Finance law claim appropriate, a legal right to
introduce a full-time course, nationwide minimum standards for
define the quality of care services in a law and
support the training of more educators.
EUR 1 billion in federal funds per year, we are countries and
Municipalities provide in addition to enable it precedes quickly. The resolved by Schwarz-Gelb care allowance continues
the wrong incentives because it rewards families from their children
Education center Kita away - we want therefore in favor of a
better equipment of kindergartens do away again! Parents should be
can choose between a place in day care and day care.
In our schools, it is possible to rarely compensate for unequal starting opportunities. Too early is sorted, rather than individual children
to promote and give them time to develop. We are
convinced that it is good if children longer together on
learn a school. But we do not want to prescribe from above this,
but invite teachers, parents and pupils,
to make themselves together on the path to better schools.
Everyone benefits, the stronger pupils as the weaker. Students and teachers also need more time, because
successful learning and individual support not walk in 45mins intervals and are not to end at noon. Our goal is
It comprehensively establish all-day schools, the barrier-free

108

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Partaking of good education

are and where all the children in the afternoon and another
learn from each other, deepen knowledge, express their creativity and
ever can discover new things. A full-time school may involve extracurricular sports, culture and youth offers better. Therefore, we will negotiate with the countries through a second full-day school program, so that the good, first by the
Program can be continued from 2004 is pushed changes. Social workers and social workers make an important contribution to the design of a school, the children
and young people just promotes individual even in difficult phases of life. Schulsozialarbeit makes prevention and should under
the all-day school development will be strengthened. Moreover want
we strengthen language education in kindergartens and schools. Language Education
must begin at an early stage, in the daily lives of children and youth
be integrated and involve their family languages. For children
with diagnosed learning disabilities, we want to advance the way
Open therapeutic help.

3. Additions to open in training,
Masters and Courses
For many young people the way from school to training, study and work is very far - often too far. Each year
300,000 young people supposedly from pre-vocational
Measure to measure towed. The German model of apprenticeship training is internationally recognized right. But: At
few young people make the transition to in-company training, too few companies are taking part and the permeability
leaves much to be desired. With Dual Plus we want to develop the vocational training system so that all training interested can purchase a recognized vocational qualification. The successful dual education principle, we maintain, Vocational School
and enterprises should be in addition to inter-company learning venues supplemented. For young people who have left school without qualifications, production schools can ease the transition into vocational training. Making the switch to a conventional
company training is always possible, we want the training

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

109

Time for the green transformation

Partaking of good education

gradually in professional and transnationally recognized and mutually reinforcing training modules divided. Smaller
and specialized establishments may thus participate in Dual Plus.
The advantage is: More businesses can be at the training
participate, and more young people find a training place, supportive measures are integrated, no formation step remains
without connection. And so one could also at least 4
Save billion euro expensive measures jungle and give many young people a real opportunity. The training promote
Non-EU citizens to be improved. Simultaneously, a
Funded training to good professionals.
The fear of the cost keeps many from studying.
A better study financing must therefore be more students and
especially educational climbers reach inside. This is especially true for
young people from nonacademic without appropriate role models. We want to be a first step, the situation
of students from low-income families improve annually by changing the BAföG and an increase of 300 million euros. We also want the BAföG for an independent study programs throughout the European Higher Education Area
enable. In the next step we will build study finance, which consists of two pillars: a student grant, which all received, and a necessary contribution to the a
Winning study who do not study so far. Both grants
must - unlike the current BAföG - not be repaid.
Tuition fees are now nationwide almost everywhere
again abolished. We reject it on. The Germany Scholarship and the Education Savings Account we criticize. Both are inadequate to ensure equality in education.
Germany's shortage of skilled workers can only be resolved if
more people are better qualified and study. But the
Universities are not well prepared for the numerous luckily
to the universities urging freshmen. It lacks
are funded student places. We want to study the willing doors
open wide and 1 billion euros a year more in the Higher Education Pact
stuck - for more study places and better study conditions.
We want to stabilize the Higher Education Pact and to a perma-

110

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Partaking of good education

develop th, needs-based system of university funding.
We support the vision of a European Higher Education Area,
but are committed to a reform of the higher education reform. Because they
solves their promises so far not one. The examination must density
reduced the curricula reduced in number, the validation of competences acquired abroad coursework improved care and
Counseling and social infrastructure on campus
be strengthened. The Bachelor as we want, qualifying
Establish financial statements and sufficient places for those
create, seeking a master.
Thus learning in later stages of life to afford it
can, we will introduce a continuing education student loans for 200 million euros annually. It knows no age limit, the financing of
Livelihood and the actions carried out by a cost
Mix of grants and loans - depending on the situation of the beneficiaries. For qualifications and skills can be rescheduled
become. We want to win those for training, the
are far reaches of the offers too little older, women, people with an immigrant background and the low-skilled.
Furthermore, we will ensure that the issue of illiteracy is no longer socially ignored, and accordingly, in cooperation with states, municipalities and the
Federal Employment Agency and the employers' efforts to improve the literacy and basic education
strengthen. People with disabilities, we can all continue to
continuous training and education necessary supports
send and assistance services.

4. Green Science Policy: Freedom and Responsibility
Research means to think the world of tomorrow today, trying to understand relationships and better understanding of what we
do not know. Science is essential to address the social, cultural, economic and environmental issues of the future. For this we need a shared responsibility
all disciplines. The securitized in the Constitutional right to re-

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

111

Time for the green transformation

Partaking of good education

Research freedom is a valuable commodity. At the same time science has to
their responsibility in research and teaching. We want to provide incentives for the government research funding,
that universities and research institutions to contribute to
Solutions for major societal challenges afford.
To this end, we also need a strong basic research.
Because without the departure into the unknown, the unknown and uncertain can not succeed genuine knowledge breakthroughs. Also for
it takes money and time. That is why we see with concern the consequences of
declining core funding of universities. This endangers not just the program bound curiosity research.
Sustainable and social innovations set far-reaching impact assessments accompanying risk research and an understanding
the complex technical and social interrelations ahead when new technologies implemented for the benefit of all
should be.
We need a science to a science with
society come. We want to inter- and transdisciplinary
Support research in order to broaden knowledge and be able to identify social and ecological interactions early.
This requires a strengthening of research for sustainable
Development. However, the protection of the environment and animals makes
Demarcations needed. Animal experiments we want to reduce consistently. We call for a national center of excellence for animal test methods. The Ethics Committee for evaluation of animal experiments, we want at least half with representatives of the
Animal welfare occupy. Experiments on great apes, we want to strictly
ban. We strive for a far-reaching ban on experiments on
non-human primates. We want to strengthen the peace and conflict studies and appreciate it if public research institutions work as a model locally peace clauses.
Good science requires good working conditions at all levels of academic careers. Beyond the Chair
Scientists have now extremely uncertain and vocational
Life prospects. We want family-friendly universities
and scientific institutions. Fixed-term contracts have the upper hand, often with maturities under one year. The science-Term Contract Law has a tendency to precarious employment

112

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking of good education

exacerbated. In Germany, even seasoned scientists to the fifth decade of life for dependent
Junior. Independent research is not provided here. Teaching
is increasingly being covered by low-paid teaching positions.
We call for a long-term "pact for sustainable
Personnel structures and young scientists ". To
include the change in the Temporary Science Employment Law,
Minimum standards for decent employment and
new categories of staff beyond the Chair. The universities
and extramural research institutions are mandatory
Enter into commitments for a sustainable human resources development.
Control mechanisms to be introduced to avoid,
that universities use teaching as a means to over
extremely cost-effective and legally defenseless and teachers to
. feature In addition, we want the new edition of the junior professorship program 1,000 new junior professorships with tenure track
initiate. That is, after a positive evaluation is a permanent
Employment be opened. At such a pact
For us also, that improve the training and care conditions for doctoral students. But have qualitative
Minimum standards and a uniform PhD student status will be implemented nationwide. Want The variety of paths to a doctorate
we obtain. We also want the future also for cooperative colleges
Promote promotions between colleges and universities.
Women are in the science system are still significantly under-represented - with every level of qualification is rising. This is not
only a serious problem of justice, it thus also threaten
significant innovation and sacrificing quality in research and
Teaching. We want to commit universities and extramural research institutions to determine target quotas corresponding to at least the cascade model. If these are not met,
shall have the consequences for the allocation of funds. The institutional and project-research funding, we want to
gender equality policy commitments socialize, so in the medium term at least 50% women at all levels to them.The insufficient basic funding of universities are increasingly threatened
A particular strength of the German science system, namely
the quality in width. Separation into "research universities"

113

Time for the green transformation

Partaking of good education

and "training colleges" we want to counteract and
Improve teaching quality. Countries need their universities better
equip, and the federal government has greater responsibility - for example when
the joint funding of extramural research -
take. The Confederation may relieve the countries by the future
70% instead of the current 50% of the cost of the Max Planck Society
and the Leibniz Association accepts and overhead funding by the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft gradually increased.
Countries should commit themselves contractually to strengthen with the availability of resources, basic financing of higher education.
We strive for an orderly phasing out of the Excellence Initiative. We want to maintain and further develop the instruments graduate schools and clusters of excellence. For us, this is Europe
agreed target of 3% of gross domestic product in research and
Development to invest only minimum. Will the EU total
reach their destination, economically strong countries like Germany must strive for much higher values. The proven system
Research funding from publicly funded research institutions and a competitive project funding, we want to supplement
through tax incentives for research for small and medium
Companies.
We want that results of publicly funded research
are rapidly widely available, and therefore support Open Access
and Open Data in order for the exchange within the scientific community, but also the transfer of knowledge in the economy and society will be improved in the field of science. Through public funds
funded scientific publications should be freely accessible. The independence of scientific research
and teaching at university and non-university institutions
must be guaranteed. Maximum transparency about the
Research at colleges and universities is the foundation
for critical discourse in higher education and for public accountability of universities to society is.
Clear and binding rules on transparency help eg research for
military use or ethically contentious issues such as To identify animals and to address public. To
include comprehensible information for citizens and
Citizens, who in publicly funded science area which

114

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Funds for research activities which receives and who with whom
cooperates. We also want to strengthen approaches to design research policy making participatory.

5. collective responsibility:
Cancel ban on cooperation

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking of good education

Federal and state governments have committed to invest at least 10% of GNP annually in education and research.
Although the goal is still not quite reached, we say:
We can not stand still. The aim must be at least 7%
be in education and 3.5% for research and development to 2020th
Because others have departed. Educational and research expenses
have therefore a priority for us. And we are the countries
through reform of inheritance and our proposals for
another budget and tax policies more financial leeway procure for their tasks in education and science.
We want better education funding and better
Educational and scientific system that is also more powerful.
This also constitutional blockades have cleared
become. It must be possible again that the federal government, the states,
e.g. the expansion of all-day schools and study courses, may provide financial support. We want to amend the Basic Law to the
Cooperation ban repealed in education and to facilitate cooperation in science. Our goal is to facilitate better Constitution for Education and Science. In order to strengthen both fields of the future and to promote equality of opportunity,
it needs a cooperative educational federalism, a real responsibility partnership between federal, state and local authorities
as well as a new cooperation and a culture of trust. Until the cooperation ban is lifted, we will work to ensure that
the federal government contributed to the cost of education and the countries through
our proposals for a different fiscal and tax policies obtain financial leeway for their tasks in education and science.

115

Time for the green transformation

We are committed nationwide uniform and binding statements related education standards in all subjects a. This should
be certain that despite different school systems
Pupils comparable in all provinces
Acquire knowledge and master the same core competencies. We also want to prevent them disadvantages at a
Changing schools across Länder boundaries arise.

Partaking of good education

Who chooses GREEN ...
• investing in more, better and more inclusive kindergartens.
• promotes longer common and inclusive learning.
• promotes all-day schools with a high quality of education for all.
• ensures good education for all, creating additional study places and improve the quality of teaching and learning.
• creates scope for better financing of the basic
Universities and provides young scientists
reliable prospects.
• wants to abolish the ban on cooperation in education.

Key projects
Green Education Republic of reasons - good
All-day schools fl build äche coverage
The German education system is unfair and needs to be renewed
become. We want better education and equal opportunities for all
Children. All-day schools are the heart of fair equitable and inclusive education system, because they provide the framework,
takes place in the individualized and creative learning. That's why
we build coverage on all-day schools. For bargain
we with the countries on the lifting of the ban on cooperation

116

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

in the formation and support them with a minimum of 500 million euros
per year. This will create schools where all children also on
Afternoon together and learn from each other, deepen knowledge
to explore and new.

Colleges strengthen - 1 year
Billion euros more federal funding
Partaking of good education

Countries need to equip their schools better and
Federal government must assume greater responsibility for financing. We want that 3.5% of GDP by 2020 in research and
Development will be invested. For more places, better
Study conditions, a higher quality of teaching and reliable perspectives for young scientists we want
additionally at least 1 billion euros annually in our universities
invest. By changing keys in the financing except
university research, we also want to give countries leeway to the basic funding of higher education
strengthen. This precarious employment should be contained and
Funding of study places are guaranteed.

Students and training better
support - increase the BAföG
Too many people opt for financial barriers
against studying. The situation of students from low-income families, we want a reform and increase
improve the BAföG. In a first step we ask for
at least 300 million euros in addition ready. Then we want the
BAföG gradually expand to the green 2-pillar model, the one
Basic coverage and a needs Grant combined and more
Education ascent possible. This learning and continuing education you can afford even in later stages of life, we want to introduce for at least 200 million euros a year, a further education BAföG.
It knows no age limits. The financing of livelihood
and the measures carried out cost through a mix of grants
and loans, depending on the situation of the beneficiaries.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

117

Time for the green transformation

G. sharing in social security
How do we create a network of protection for all

Partaking of social security

We live in one of the richest countries in the world. Nevertheless,
material poverty no marginal phenomenon, but affects millions
People. One in four children under age 15 living in Germany in
a low-income household. Unemployment, education of
Children, disease, disability, age or fateful events should not cause in our rich country of a life
be in poverty.
Our goal of participation includes all. Including politics does not ask
after alleged deficits of people, but the skills of individuals and their participation will encourage and support. That
we create with the instruments of a sociocultural Guaranteeing and good public institutions, but also by a
generally anchored mindset that opens to all people the freedom to live in our democracy as they are. It is normal,
to be different.
Who was born poor, is often earlier and more severe ill and has a significantly lower life expectancy. This
is compounded by poor access to health care. The increasing number of people who work in precarious conditions or interrupted careers
have, is insufficiently covered in old age. Many sufferers
organize or finance any good care of themselves in case of need.
We strips the social desire for a reliable safety net for all last episode: The socially
Disadvantaged must not fall through the net. Only those who know
that it is necessary, collected and Social Rights has is a citizen
and no / e petitioner.
Social security is a prerequisite for social involvement, for everyone who wants to get involved and can. Social
Security and participation are two sides of the same coin. Therefore

118

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Partaking of social security

it is important that the socio-cultural subsistence level for actually
all is guaranteed.
By making social security systems fit for the
new challenges, we are also creating a solidarity
Future. Green basic security, Green Citizens Insurance, Green
Guarantee pension and green care concept are the key to this.
So we create a cohesive safety net, to which each
Man can rely in case of need: quick, unbureaucratic and
living wage. We want to achieve that the insured
take their social services in Europe better in claim
be able.
We also act firmly that the insured be found in the system more powerful voice and greater representation
obtain. Whether unemployed or pensioners whether patients or
In need of care: Again, intervention is desirable.

1. Green basic security
The basic provision for jobseekers is a crucial safety net. These basic security needs in addition to the material security and the possibility of sociocultural participation in our society make. The dignity of man is and remains
Measure of our policy.
Despite years of criticism of the calculation of ArbeitslosengeldII rule set the Merkel government has not responded and this
get the receipt in 2010 by the Federal Constitutional Court.
We want to increase the standard rate for adults to 420 Euros
and annually review whether it is still appropriate. This recalculation we want to implement in the dialogue with the social organizations.
The calculation must be made constitutional. That
ie on the one hand, the so-called hidden arms and small spiking (additional income to 100 euros) from the reference group, the measure of the rule set calculation is to take out. And for
others involve major expenditure items, the
important for participation and maintenance of interpersonal relationships
are and also cover average energy costs. In addition,

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

119

Time for the green transformation

Partaking of social security

usually need to be adjusted in 2014 based on the new statistical data on inflation and wages. So that
Raising the ALG II is financially viable and to prevent
more and more people in employment in addition to poverty wages
Must obtain ALG II, include the introduction of a statutory
Minimum indispensable to a reformed basic security
to. We are hoping that we go through a minimum wage Money
save, so we can to finance part of the ALG II increase it. The bureaucratic education and participation package
The result is that many children can not perceive their constitutionally guaranteed right to education and participation.
We want to abolish the senseless education and participation package.
Instead, we want as a first step towards the children basic security
increase the children rulesets and invest in the education and participation infrastructure.
We want to change the basis for calculating the ALG II
of the need community towards the individual livelihood. The principle of benefit communities at a disadvantage especially
Women and cemented their financial dependence. This change will not happen overnight, but we are the
Shift towards individual livelihoods in the coming
Tackle legislature and take concrete steps.
This also applies to asylum seekers. That's why we provide from the Asylum Seekers Benefits Act, convert their claims into the SGB and
end the practice unworthy voucher.
The penalties for recipients and recipients of unemployment benefit II are usually humiliating, unnecessary and counterproductive. The
tougher penalties for people under 25 years, until the
Can cause homelessness, we want to abolish immediately.
The enforced by black and yellow imputation of parental allowance
discriminated against on the Unemployment Benefit II-income poor families. When we are seeking reorganization of family benefits, we want to eliminate this injustice and
make the recognition of parental allowance undo. Our
The goal is a basic security that focuses on motivation, support and recognition rather than on punishment. The payment of a basic social security should be further subject to the willingness of the
Return society something and separate a

120

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking of social security

To seek livelihood. Usually this is the search for
a new job, training or retraining. We need a list of wishes and voting rights of the job seekers in the job centers, a right of collective action and ombudsmen to conflicts early, unnecessary, avoiding and
expensive litigation and solve at eye level. These want
we ensure, for example, that integration agreements
not be replaced by an administrative act. Such a principle
the partnership is with the current sanctions regime and not -automatismen compatible. Until new fair rules
have been established, we are calling for a penalty moratorium.
Social services are right. But who they claim
wants to take, often experienced a nasty surprise: if jobseekers
Call questions to the Job Centre a paid telephone hotline
need to then but not to receive information; if the nursing care insurance elderly who need an outpatient service,
not sufficiently supported; or if the insurance company the terminal treatment of a patient or a patient for a
Stroke delaying. These examples are examples of
an often experienced handling of authorities and social insurance
with their "customers". The rights to consultation, to
adequate benefits, to participate in social life
remain on the track. We want the people you
Get right. It's about time that beneficiaries at
to strengthen the enforcement of their legal rights, including through a
Right of collective action and the creation and promotion offices of independent advice centers.
We want the idea of ​​a financial base backup or the one
negative income tax discuss further. Especially in the debate about basic security and an unconditional basic income
for all it must be to our ideals of justice
and emancipatory social policy, to connect the importance of public institutions and financial viability. We want this debate
carry into society. We therefore hold the device
a commission of inquiry in the German Bundestag would be useful in
and the idea of ​​a basic income and basic models
Reform prospects for the welfare state and social security systems are discussed. In such an inquiry, we want the

121

Time for the green transformation

Discussion of an unconditional basic income, and so
related changes in the social security systems to
provide necessary space. The aim is, the gap between rich and
Close kingdom and the individual fundamental right to participation
realize.

2. Green Citizens Insurance:
fair financing of the health system

Partaking of social security

In the statutory health insurance healthy and sick, young and old, as well as credit and low incomes are in solidarity
for one another. Children are insured free of charge. But solidarity is not complete. Our health care system is
run into trouble. Privately insured are often privileged and
receive preferential treatment. Well-paid employees, civil servants, many MPs and most self-employed belong to private health insurance. As a privately insured
Make sure only their own, mostly below-average risk of illness. For solos This DC they do not contribute to that.
Want this 2-tier health system in our health
We end. Our alternative is the green citizen insurance:
a place for all every man for himself. By contrast, black and yellow will solos This DC within the statutory health insurance always
further degrade. The rising health care expenditures are through
additional flat-rate contributions are alone saddled the insured. We, however, want more, not less solidarity. The green
Citizens Insurance involves all citizens in the community of solidarity. At the same time the equal funding
restored between employers and employees.
The green citizen insurance provides not only for the strengthening of solidarity. It is a decisive step towards a sound financing of health care, because we broaden the
financial basis. In the future, we want all types of income equal to treat and use them to finance. So in addition to earned income and pensions and capital income, for example by
Share profits, interest, rental income and speculative profits.

122

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Partaking of social security

We also raise the income threshold to the force in the pension level. This creates greater equity in
Healthcare by earners fair involved makes,
fit for the future funding and creates space for reductions in contribution rates.
The green Bürgerversicherung is no national insurance. Both the statutory and private health insurers can
offer universal health insurance. However, a common applicable
Fee Structure. Because the nature and extent of the treatment
of patients may no longer be dependent on whether they are insured privately or publicly. We will make sure that the higher fees, which now has the
Privately insured flow to the medical profession and to the other health professionals, be maintained and which are more equitable. The competition among providers may not present
on the contribution rate, but is mainly about the quality and
Patient orientation are performed. The health insurance
as stakeholders to the welfare of each member in
Have views. In no case there must be a risk selection. Insured persons may because of their age, gender or possible
Pre-existing conditions are not disadvantaged. The contributions are strictly
income relative to be raised. Co-payments are abolished.
The green Bürgerversicherung supports families with children.
Children are free insured, but also limited Married or cohabiting partners who are not gainfully employed,
Educate children or provide maintenance services. For all other
Couples and for registered communities is a
Post Splitting introduced. Thus, the preference for single-earner couples will be terminated with an above-average household incomes and the negative employment incentives for wives
abolished.

3. Green health policy:
local drains and demand, inclusive and preventive
We want to improve the health care close to home and continued access regardless of age, income, history

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

123

Time for the green transformation

Partaking of social security

make bad, origin, disability, social status and place of residence. Core must be a primary care, in the home and
Paediatricians and other health professionals nationals
cooperate on an equal footing. For groups include the appreciation
the general practitioners and the profession of nursing, a change
Distribution of tasks between the health professions and a remuneration system required that the special services of primary care, such as counseling and monitoring of patients
considered. GP contracts can thereby make a contribution to
to ensure a close to home primary care and improve the quality of care.
To the supply needs of the growing number of chronically
and multiply and mentally ill patients to meet, is a close cooperation between the different health institutions and professions required. The
financial and legal barriers that hinder the health care "hand in hand", we want to eliminate. The
Willingness and ability to work together has been in the
Training be promoted. The nurses are to strengthen in their ownership.
In the design of health care to the municipalities as well as regional and local groupings of
Patients and health professionals in the future a
get larger role. So supply structures more
geared towards the needs locally and medical care,
Prevention and health promotion are linked with the municipal social services. The hospital care is a
important part of public services. Hospitals are
must be understood as part of the regional power system and
be financed as needed. Public hospitals have to deal with their social objectives in addition to non-profit
can assert and private organizations.
But with their hospital policy zigzags and failure to structural reforms has driven many community hospitals in the red especially the federal government. That
harm to patients. For diagnoses, therapies and duration of hospitalization are in the clinics
increasingly driven by economic considerations.

124

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking of social security

And that also applies to employees, particularly in the care
must supply an increasing number of patients with an ever-increasing need for support.
Alliance '90 / The Greens therefore want a change of course
also in the hospital policy. Faulty economic incentives in
current financing system, to inappropriate or ethically
can result questionable treatment decisions, we want to
fix. The remuneration received by the hospitals for the treatment of patients, to the rising
Personnel and material costs due account. The quality
the treatment and the patient should benefit increasingly in the
Remuneration received. The contingency costs of emergency care and
the cost structure of the various hospital sizes need to be adequately addressed.
To improve working conditions in the hospitals, in addition to the creation of additional care places and a
financial betterment of nursing a family-friendly
Labour Organization, more team spirit and an equal cooperation required of all health professionals working in the hospital. Existing occupational health and working time rules
are consistently implement and to take precautions against excessive mental stress.
Thus, regional supply networks may form and order
a needs-based hospital care in rural
to ensure and structurally weak regions, we want the
Improve conditions for the cooperation of the hospitals themselves and with the outpatient structures on site.
Therefore we aspire, inter alia, a uniform compensation system
for all specialist medical benefits, regardless of whether they are performed in the hospital or in the specialist practice. The application
information technology can make an important contribution for a
afford better health care. However, here are the
Principles of data protection and the right to informational
Self-determination of the patients must be strictly observed.
Patients should also offers the special
Can perceive of therapy. These complementary medicine needs to provide evidence of effectiveness. Appropriate methods for proof of efficacy for complementarity

125

Time for the green transformation

Partaking of social security

tärmedizin as well as other medical fields (eg physiotherapists or
Psychotherapy) to develop. For public research monies are to be made available. Patients should in a patient letter after treatment in an intelligible form of
Diagnosis, type and scope of services to be informed.
Whether in artificial hip joints, pacemakers or breast implants - safety, efficacy and benefit of medical devices need to be improved. These include a European
unified national approval procedures for high-risk products,
rigorous criteria for clinical trials, a medical register
and a better benefit assessment of new examination and treatment methods. Necessary is also a product liability
for medical device manufacturers.
The recently introduced benefit assessment of new medicines is
an important step. It allows the price of a drug
to make depending on which patient benefits associated with it. Blockade experiments the pharmaceutical industry we are
decided to confront. For all information about a
Can be incorporated into its drug review, we will
Pharmaceutical companies undertake to register all drug studies and publish their results. Research projects for specific compatibility of medicines in children
as well as to gender-specific compatibility needs to be strengthened. Medical research must be made transparent,
Dependence on third-party funding in the research consistently
be disclosed. We want for people in developing and
Emerging countries to improve access to medicines. To this end,
we want to improve the legal framework and
see public research institutions in the responsibility,
to develop socially responsible licensing and distribution models. Looking ahead we can strive for a harmonization of the price regulation
and the rules on transparency of quality of medicines within the EU. The fight against corruption needs a clear
Legislation with consistent enforcement to the manipulation in the health system by the patient is not well oriented
Influences, among others Activities by pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers inside to finish last. This includes the introduction of a
Offense of corruption by the internal provider

126

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking of social security

healthcare, the expansion independently funded medical research and continuing education being free from economic influences.
People with disabilities are in the health system more frequently than others paternalism and decisions on her head
away exposed. We strive for an inclusive health system,
which responds to the needs of people with disabilities
and all the necessary preventive, diagnostic, therapeutic,
and rehabilitative measures allows. This includes the quality of support with a, for example, by supply
highly specialized tools for communication and mobility.
We advocate that the UN CRPD in
Germany is consistently implemented and a corresponding
Carried out revision of the legal bases.
We want an intercultural opening of health services generally and if necessary a linguistic ancestry advisory services. For refugees and people "without papers" needs of
Access to primary health care be ensured. We want the patient benefits - particularly improving
quality of life - at the center and are therefore more
treatment outcomes and not exclusively to remunerate
Scope of treatments. To a powerful health care contribute to informed patients, the
their needs represented self-confident and able to help shape their treatment. They need reliable information on the
Quality of therapies and care services. But the poor quality of transparency is one of the major weaknesses in the
German health care system. What is needed is a kind of "Stiftung Warentest" in health care, which gathers reliable quality information and generally understandable. We advocate
the further expansion of an independent patient counseling. Us
contact us for a facilitated standard of proof for injured patients
on. For patients who have associated with their treatment
have suffered severe health damage without
clearly a medical malpractice can be proven, want
we set up a liability and compensation fund. About that
also needed is a strengthening of patients' rights and
Rights of patients representatives in the bodies of self-

127

Time for the green transformation

Partaking of social security

administration. The patient must be given more rights in court for malpractice.
To get closer to the goal of good health for all,
it needs mainly preventive efforts in various policy fields. From the diet of the town planning,
Environmental and transport policy up to the school, sport and drug policy. Health burdens in the living environment and in people's everyday lives. This begins to already around
the birth. We want a good start in life for all children.
That is why we want to strengthen midwifery, remunerate their work better
and give more recognition to the profession. In the daycare, school, workplace, or in the residential district. And
these loads are distributed socially unequal. Studies always show
again, that the health risks already in children and adolescents in the 20% concentrate, the socially disadvantaged
Families come. We want to counteract. We want to promote health, not just treat disease. And we want the
Reduce inequality of health opportunities. We want
achieve that health promotion and prevention better geared to target groups and more gender and culturally sensitive offers are made. That's why
we are creating a prevention law a reliable basis for a good, close to home, all accessible and affordable
Health care. Effective health promotion finds
Place place in the municipalities. We consider this case also sports and
Movement as important preventive measures to ensure the physical
and to obtain mental health and where possible to improve.
The Prevention Law also provides for an equitable funding
and a reasonable control of the health promotion and prevention, to which we are all social security institutions and the private
Health and nursing participate.
More and more people need due to a mental
Crisis or a severe mental disorder help and therapy.
This is due to the increasing psychological stress
especially in children and adolescents of school age and high
Stress in the workplace. We need more comprehensive community-based outpatient services, such as Crisis assistance, better
Transitions between inpatient and outpatient care supply,

128

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking of social security

multipart deals for integrated care as well as increased
Cooperation between the health and social professions.
Scientifically recognized psychotherapy method should also
be placed in outpatient care available. Us
stand up for forms of treatment that are not voluntary and on
Forcing. In order to eliminate the existing shortcomings, want
we work to ensure that federal and state governments with the involvement of all
Actors develop an action plan for the further development of health care in mental illness. Us
support the dedicated work of self-help and are committed
an unprejudiced trialogue between psychiatry experienced, relatives and professional in psychiatry workers a.
We want the numerous scandals severely damaged
Build trust in the system of organ transplantation again. The people must be able to rely on it in
Approaching organ donation fair and above board. This is only
by absolute transparency, rule of law and by
continuous quality checks, is why we are committed to the creation of a public body which coordinates organ donation in Germany and performs the supervision of the actors involved in the transplantation process. A good
Healthcare also includes, dying an end of life in dignity and self-determination to allow. An important contribution
to ensure the hospice movement. But the number and terms of the
inpatient hospices is very different and not sufficient.
We want the framework conditions for hospice care, among other things by
improve a reduction in the statutory self-financing share.

129

Time for the green transformation

4. prevention, assistance and decriminalization instead
Continuation of the failed drug and addiction policy

Partaking of social security

The global war on drugs has failed. Worldwide, many people suffer from the negative consequences of this policy, from wars
and armed internal conflicts, and under repression
significant health problems. A testament to the benefits of the criminalization of drugs does not exist, however.
We want a reform of drug policies and rely on
Prevention, assistance, harm reduction and decriminalization. aim
is to respect the self-determination of people and to minimize health risks. We call for the involvement
science, drug treatment and health policy, an evaluation of current drug policies. Instead of the failed policy of prohibition, we demand a long-term oriented to the actual health risks of all regulation - also previously illegal
- Drugs. New prohibitions, such as a group of substances regulation
at Legal Highs we reject. The criminalization of drug users needs to close.
Who depends, needs help, not criminal prosecution. Just
by a different on the lifestyles of people
oriented help and counseling system to health
Risks can be reduced. We want the specific target groups
and strengthen low-threshold offers the drug and addiction assistance. Any hazards which could be caused by the current black market conditions, we intend to further expansion
of risk-minimizing measures such as needle exchange programs and drug consumption rooms, oppose and those by
You can complete the enabling substance analyzes (Drugchecking).
The existing treatment and support services for opiate-dependent
must be removed, eliminated legal barriers and low-threshold
Offers to be strengthened. We want existing prevention programs for all psychoactive substances and not check-bonded addictions in terms of effectiveness and correct if necessary; public advertising ban effectively. The topic
"Drugs and Addiction" has many facets broad input in
find the schools and social support such as health authorities must be better able, dif- parents and teens

130

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Partaking of social security

ref- and expertly advise. We will continue to
commitment to effective Non smoking protection and protection
improve against passive smoking. The Tobacco Framework Convention
WHO will be implemented and thus limit the influence of the tobacco industry effectively. We are committed to ensuring that the e-cigarette
as health less harmful alternative to smoking
is maintained.
For details on the delivery of cannabis, for dealing with cannabis
in road traffic and to medical research on drugs
we describe in the chapter "civil rights strengthening", "strengthen the rule of law" in the subchapter.

5. Green fl egekonzept: humanely
and support
The humanity of a society is measured also by their interaction with people who need assistance. Good care is
something that concerns everyone: children whose grandparents are maintained,
Adults whose children need care, and the elderly who are in need of care themselves. We Greens want a
dignified care that accompanies and supports. We want
a care that puts people at the center. We want,
that people even in homecare dignified and self-determined
can live, regardless of the wallet. To a sustainable supply structure and human and good
To secure care, we will continue to work for a thoroughgoing reform of the nursing care. We therefore want the
Change and enhance care concept and represent children and young people in the assessment better. Thus, just for the increasing number of dementia sufferers finally better care guarantees and discrimination within the
Care be eliminated. Long-term care can be prevented, halted or slowed down, so we want
finally set effective incentives for better prevention and rehabilitation in care.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

131

Time for the green transformation

Partaking of social security

Finally, it requires more to comply with the UN CRPD in the care and consistently implement. People with disabilities in need of care must be independent from
Age and the cause of disability or care access to care insurance benefits and participation services.
We want people who care for their relatives at home,
more than ever relieve with a network of professional help and civic engagement. For this we are taking care
strengthen in the quarter and the ambulatory supply and discharge rates, which is also independent of the use of national - so far mainly at the expense of women - a supply security
Location offer, improve and expand. We want to make it long-term care, with a personal care budget care
to organize according to their own wishes. We also want a
Establish entitlement to a green maintenance time. We need more
than ever a carrier independent care advice.
Residential and nursing forms, one in the immediate vicinity
Provide security of supply, are becoming increasingly important and must
be strengthened and expanded. In many places is still invested in large nursing homes. Here we want to control. We want
away from traditional wholesalers and specialized institutions and instead create places where nursing care can take place in a domestic living environment. To achieve this, like
we Alternatives for Independent Living with offers for
intensive care and support promote such housing communities, care and group homes, residential communities or
Mehrgenerationenwohnen. It is also necessary facilities of
Day, night and short-term care, as well as age-appropriate design of the structures in the residential environment. We want to reach beyond that to also existing large residential institutions
Open quarters out and remodel towards manageable Community Residential and nursing forms. Municipalities comes
in this development is of great importance to. You need to
Help the federal and state policies are supported in the establishment of Quartier concepts. The program "Social City"
with the federal and state governments to improve the living conditions in disadvantaged neighborhoods, we want to expand so that even care

132

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Partaking of social security

and support will be promoted in the neighborhood. Germany is
a country of immigration, this also means more and more people with
Immigrant background are in need of care. Total must be
adjust care to a greater diversity and cultural,
religious, sexual or gender identities sensitive
consider.
For an increasing number of people in need of care, we need enough well-qualified and dedicated nurses.
In order to accommodate the nurses receive the recognition that they
earn, and to counteract a shortage of skilled workers, want
we acknowledge the nursing profession and better pay and improve working conditions. We advocate for adequate staffing levels and the reduction of unnecessary red tape. To all
To give nurses advancement opportunities, we want a modern,
create permeable education and training system, allows the nursing education and at universities. In addition, we need
more training places in nursing. We want a permanent
Scheme to finance the third year retraining. The care must focus on the people and their lives to serving the world
involved. For this they need specific knowledge that needs to be taught already in training. Plead in nursing education
we for a training levy in all provinces. We want that nurses and other health professionals independent
can work.
The care must be placed on a sound financial footing. To this end, we want to involve all citizens and all income and introduce the citizens care insurance.
With her better care is affordable. Despite significant improvements in performance which keeps the premium development far into the
Future manageable and reasonable. This is a step towards greater
Justice, sustainability and solidarity.

6. Green pension policy: the
Guaranteed pension to old-age poverty
Pensioners it is in Germany on average
still relatively good. Age poverty but today a pro-

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

133

Time for the green transformation

Partaking of social security

lem. More than two million older people in Germany have an income below the EU poverty line. Given unsteady
Careers, widespread low wages and a declining pension level will increase poverty among the elderly. This applies especially to women who because of traditional role assignments
and not existing childcare places were not gainfully employed or part-time and are. We set a strategy of an equitable labor market policies and measures within the pension system to establish their own claims and the
Guarantee pension counter.
Altersarmut usually goes with handicaps in many
Walks of life hand in hand. Frequently social isolation is the result.
Therefore we rely on a comprehensive approach to poverty in old age.
We need differentiated solutions for the most vulnerable
Groups. Important addition to the pension is a good labor market policy.
In addition, it needs improvements in the area of ​​basic security, housing and health care.
It is for us a matter of justice and the dignity that
People who had a pension scheme for many years, do not rely as pensioners on basic security in old age. This
People must be spared at the age of transition to Office. Our
Response is the tax-financed guarantee pension of at least 850
Euro. We want to guarantee all NeurentnerInnen with at least 30 years of insurance a pension above the basic security.
As requirements for payment of all insurance periods apply.
These include contribution periods creditable periods, eg due to unemployment, credited periods due to reduced capacity due care and consideration times (until the legal claim
on U3-care) child rearing up to 10 years. Us
not differentiate between part-time and full-time. The conditions for the guarantee pension, we have deliberately chosen so that
not only by men, but especially women
are easy to reach. Are private and company claims
only partially credited to the guarantee pension. We thus ensure
no more than necessary charged for specific target groups combating poverty in old age, the control and internal contributors. Us
want basic security in old age and reduced earning capacity
improve, for example, by a more generous recognition of

134

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking of social security

saved assets. At the same time it should quickly give a uniform pension law in East and West. The main aim is to raise the retirement value Ost on the bond value West.
However, this should be done so that the previously acquired pension rights remain constant.
Securing a standard of living beyond the poverty line
the age is one of the basic tasks of a modern welfare state.
We are committed to a strong public pension system with
an adequate level of pensions, so that confidence in the
Pension system persists across generations. If
Deposit young people long into the pension system, then
they must also get a decent pension. If the pension level to drop clearly below the current level, would in future
People who can not make provisions privately or operationally, from
Altersarmut threatened. But workers to the large middle class in would be affected. That
we want to prevent. Through the progressive development of
statutory pension insurance to citizens, through a
Increasing labor force participation and through their action for a
higher wage level we want at a reasonable level of pensions
achieve stable contributions.
The statutory pension insurance is, in our view, the central and further strengthening pillar pensions. Nevertheless,
we have a diversification of risk in the pension right in principle, because that allows the chance of higher returns.
Private and company pension provision are important for the standard of living in old age. For this we want to reform the Riesterrente fundamentally. We want a simple, cost-effective and
introduce reliable base product for the state-subsidized additional pension.
The pension has been in recent years, per se
adapted changing conditions. Life expectancy is increasing
fortunately continued, the duration of the pension has
significantly extended. The number of employed contributors Interior
on the other hand to go back in the future. For the purposes of intergenerational equity, the slow rise in the retirement age remains
necessary to 67 years. This decision is only justifiable,
if it is accompanied by better labor market opportunities for older workers.

135

Time for the green transformation

Partaking of social security

This requires more age-appropriate jobs, better health promotion and individual transition solutions
in retirement, in particular by a partial pension from 60 years.
For people who can not work up to the age limit for health reasons, we want to reset the down-free disability pension back to 63 years of age. Who
however, solely on the basis of medical diagnosis and test a
Receives disability pension, this should be no deductions. Credited periods due to reduced capacity to be at
Recognized access to the guarantee pension. At the same time many people want to continue to be active even after the entry into retirement,
because work is also participation. So we need flexible transitions
find for people who retire earlier, and those that longer
want to be active.
The lower pension credits for child-raising periods for
Children who were born before 1992, are unjust. With our
Guarantee pension is why we are creating especially for women,
who could not be employed because of child rearing, a
Entry into a just and poverty-proof pension. For women a
get better independent hedge, we want to make the pension splitting already in marriage compulsory and credited child-raising periods stronger. In the medium term the pension system will be further developed for universal health insurance, in which all
Citizens, that is also civil servants, self-employed
and deputies, deposit on all types of income regardless of employment status. For us this is both a matter of justice as the economic sustainability. Simultaneously
thus closed gaps in insurance and own claims
constructed to protect proactively against poverty in old age. As first steps
we want to introduce minimum pension contributions for the unemployed again,
Include the full mini-jobs as well as the previously compulsorily insured self-employed persons in the pension scheme. Especially self-employed today for the age often very poorly secured. We have to change that. Want Jewish quota refugees
we pension law equate with repatriates.
We want also the unanimous decision of the Bundestag
2002 will finally meet and the so-called ghetto pension to the survivors of drudgery in the ghettos of Nations

136

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

onalsozialisten retroactively to 1997 to pay if their applications
were abducted over the years. With cynical bureaucratic hurdles pension insurers and now the Cabinet Merkel played on
Time and bring so still about 20,000 survivors to them
entitled retirement. It is simply cynical, this daily diminishing group of people again four years to wait
leave. Here there is immediate action.

Who chooses GREEN ...
Partaking of social security

• fighting for an ALG II ruleset of 420 euros to the
to ensure sociocultural subsistence level for all people.
• performs a solidary citizens' insurance in health and
A maintenance, and terminates the two-tier medicine.
• creates quality through prevention and networking and
good health care locally.
• improve the care of people with dementia and creates for people with care and support needs of an energy security where they want to live.
• builds Altersarmut ago with a guarantee pension of at least 850 euros and secures women by an independent
Pension splitting off.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

137

Time for the green transformation

Key projects
Decent existence - locking
Increase ALG II ruleset

Partaking of social security

The current standard rate is too low. We want to increase it so that the people who have no work, to participate in social life. We demand the ALG II ruleset for
Increase adult to 420 euros, since the current calculation
In our view, fails to ensure the socio-cultural subsistence level. A detailed calculation of the increase must be carried out in 2014 on the basis of new statistical data. So we ensure that
No one comes only because of unemployment under the wheels.
Thus, the increase can be financed and to prevent more and more people in employment "top up" poverty wages
must include the introduction of a statutory minimum wage is essential to a reformed basic security.

Abolish 2-tier health system - AN
Civil insurance for all
We want to improve care in health and care, and
end the 2-tier health system. Our alternative is the green
Citizens Insurance: one for all instead of each / r for itself. Our citizens' insurance is for all: public insurance, private insurance, civil servants and self. In the future, we want all types of income equal to treat and use them to finance: next Labor income and capital income, for example, by share gains, interest and rental income. At the same time the equal funding between employers and employees is restored. So we support the health and
Care system together and all can benefit from it.

138

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Age Fighting Poverty - guarantee pension
bring on the way

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking of social security

It threatens a massive increase in poverty in old age. In an equitable
Company is a poverty-proof pension from our point of view but indispensable. It is for us a matter of justice, that people who were pension scheme for many years, at the age not to the
Are basic backup instructed. We rely on a strategy of an equitable labor market policies, measures to establish an independent claims within the pension system as well as a
tax-financed guarantee pension of at least 850 euros. We want all NeurentnerInnen with at least 30 years of insurance
guarantee a pension above the basic security. As a condition for access to all the insurance periods apply. This includes
even periods of unemployment, disability, care, education and child care until the age of ten. We do not differentiate between part-time and full-time. With our guaranteed pension that not only men, but especially of
Is to reach women realistic, we make a targeted and
generational equitable contribution against poverty in old age.

139

Time for the green transformation

H. participation for young and old
How do we strengthen families and create a new relationship

Participation for young and old

We want a good life for children, families, young and old
make possible. How it looks, which is different for each person. However
the chances of being able to make their own lives, are unjust
distributed.
In children continue to decide on their social background
Success in the education system and thus also about their options,
to take their lives into their own hands. Young people need
often long to after their training or their studies
to find their way into professional life, and then they have often
long time with the uncertainty of temporary jobs live. Girls - and now more and more young men - wondering
Whether you are shooting with the birth of a child professionally sidelined
and as their wishes for their professional development and their
Life and caring for children can be reconciled with each other.
The people of retirement age, we must offer the possibility of their
Knowledge and experience in this society even after the
They would introduce time at work, and we need their protection so
make, that they can be old in a good way.
We want a new relationship and that the burdens and the
Pleasures are finally distributed more fairly. We have all generations in mind and make sure their needs are considered together, rather than counterbalance to today.
We want to break barriers, so that people can participate at any age. We want a transparent society, people are not forced to the brink, but opens up opportunities
- Several times in life.
Let us make man courage to take their lives into their own hands and get actively involved in our society. We want
a successful and independent life for and with young like
elderly. That does not happen by itself. For that we want to fight together.

140

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

We create the future for all generations by to the
Morning thinking, without forgetting now. Because we stand for together in solidarity.

1. Opportunities for all children

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Participation for young and old

Children are loud and happy and just there. And children are the present and future of our society. But many children are,
, hurdles put in the way a variety of reasons.
Too soon will be determined on us who belongs and who outside
is. We are working on an inclusive society in which no social origin, sexual orientation, ethnic roots or physical
or mental handicap on the future of children decide but their needs and potentials. Everyone should the
have equal opportunities to be able to make their own lives. Children have to finally become the center of our society.
We will intensify the protection of children. For this purpose, we want to
Federal Child Protection Act and the necessary support for
Children and young people to develop vigorously. Also want
we should implement the recommendations of the Roundtable of sexual child abuse. The abuse scandal has to be worked properly and / independent commissioner has the
Tasks are appointed in accordance with long-term. We make
we strongly for the creation of a supplementary system of assistance to the victims and want to continue the telephone point and the Online Help Portal.
Together with the provinces, we are the programs
expand for early assistance and family midwives and solid financing. Last but not least it is necessary to a uniform performance and
Support system for all children with and without disabilities
come to. An overall competence of the Child and Youth Services
is useful, but only if it is not to performance degradations
comes. So it must be ensured, among other things, that the individual needs of children with disabilities continue to be part have oriented and covered flexibly without the stronger to a

141

Time for the green transformation

Participation for young and old

financial attraction of parents comes. Bullying and discrimination in our schools, we say to the fight.
Children need time. They need time to play, to learn
and time with their parents, siblings and their social environment.
For that we want through a family-friendly working time policies
to care.
The structure of the Internet provides - unlike non-interactive
Media - very few opportunities, content for children and adults temporally, spatially or by restricting access to
separate. Where in the traditional media by stations or publishers
put together a program specifically geared to children
or is a certain protection of children during admission at the box office, by selling control of films and computer games
or could be provided by the time of the TV show, this is hardly possible due to the structure and boundlessness of the Internet. Therefore, working filtering programs installed voluntarily by parents on the home computer
are one possible instrument to minimize the risk to themselves for their children, that they accidentally while surfing
encounter questionable content. Mandatory filters reject the software manufacturer preset or provider-side filtering techniques
We from the other hand. In addition, for the handling of content in
Net acquisition of media skills (not only) for children of
central importance.
An extension of the legal entitlement to a full-time course
in the daycare center or family day care we deem absolutely necessary.
Thus, the quality does not fall by the wayside, we want quality standards, about the number of children who are cared for an educator, set nationwide and the education and training of more
Educators support. This task can only
be mastered jointly by local, state and the federal government - especially the effect from August 2013 legal claim in some places already is hardly achieved. To improve the
Quality child care is needed especially teachers and
Educators who have the time and working conditions, to actively
to care for the promotion of children. No one is helped,
if educators due to great physical and psychological
Stress leave their jobs. Therefore should for this quality

142

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Participation for young and old

offensive at federal level 1 billion euros a year are provided in addition. We want to make from day care centers places for the whole family. To this end, we need new forms of networking within the framework
of parent-child centers where the day care center cooperates closely with other offers. In this way, can be ways families
support, bundling. Parent-child centers can therefore
become places of encounter in the district and between generations. We want the state and local governments in the development of
Parent-child centers support. We are also using the
Countries negotiate a new full-day school program.
Good educational institutions give children the chance of a
good life. However, today many of them live in poverty or in
precarious conditions. According to a UNICEF study of 2.5 million children in Germany live in poverty. Although the employment of parents still remains the best protection against child poverty, but
the material support from the state has also improved
in order to enable all children better chances of survival.
Therefore, the Hartz IV standard rate is recalculated for children and
increase. Therefore we reserve EUR 500 million. We also want that all children are of equal worth in the tax law, and
start with the entry into a children's basic benefits as a
independent livelihood for children.

2. space for family
Family is wherever people accept binding responsibility for each other.
Families need time. Parents need time sovereignty to them in addition to the reliable coordination of childcare and
predictable times for family life can be. That is, exactly
these times should not be a matter of course for scheduled meetings and others. We want to anchor the right of return to full-time law. The equitable redistribution of work between
the sexes, between a lot of work and unemployed or
precarious workers and the creation of time-spaces for family,
for participation in democratic processes for social engagement and for recovery as we conceive society as a whole

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

143

Time for the green transformation

Participation for young and old

Task. We are also in close dialogue with the social partners,
develop new models, as we in the future and time to enjoy life
May agree better time to work together. This
we are guided by the vision of full prompt part-time for both
Parents. This is the equal sharing of
Family work promoted. We are designing the part of parents' money fairly so that parents occupation and family work
early parts are not disadvantaged longer, and the partner months with the objective perspective of a partnership breakdown
evolve.
Many single parents and their children need special support. Still, they are particularly at risk of poverty.
In addition to expanding the service infrastructure and the special consideration of single parents in designing flexible
Working time models is the development and temporal extent of the advance on maintenance payments is an important lever to the material situation of single parents and their children after separation
hedge.
Families need it supporting infrastructure. In addition to a full-day child care is one of them, in the heart
the comprehensive development of all-day schools, otherwise break
many places with enrollment all arrangements for reconciling
of family and work together. Only in this way can real freedom of choice
enter between the most diverse family models. A care guarantee for children from the first year of life as an interim step is to quickly bring predictability parents. people who
Old and accompany of care, we want in the residential district
with an ambulatory care and support structure to the side
stand and introduce a maximum three-month maintenance period with a tax-financed wage compensation.
And of course, families need money. The family-related
Services must be changed so that families actually
be able to benefit and choose people of any gender-free, in
what forms they want to live. We will stop over
State resources to promote a traditional family model unilaterally
and instead support women and men, the care tasks to share equitable, and thus give them the opportunity,
to decide for themselves how they organize their family life. About

144

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Participation for young and old

To promote children better and to combat child poverty, it needs
better infrastructure - good daycare centers and good schools - and a
Reorganization of many inaccurate material transfers. Our
The aim is a society, which is the same value each child. Every
Child, regardless of income of his family, should receive the same financial support from the state. We do not want more
marriage, but children encourage. Therefore, we want the Ehegattensplitting as outlined in "Better households" described gradual
degrade and thus build a children's basic security. The
Children basic security is thus out of the family benefits
funded. She is no additional transfer performance, but replaced
existing transfers and reductions. The children basic security may contribute to an excessive burden of child-rich
To avoid families through the melting of the splitting. Us
strive for a model that children rule sets, children allowances and
the tax exemption for children makes completely obsolete. aim
is a children's basic security, which is sized to the amount of such
that the child allowances are abolished constitutional. Often parents are not married. Ehegattensplitting has
with their life doing nothing. A children's basic benefits
on the other hand would deliver them the chance to experience real promotion.
This is especially true for single parents. Who govern us
wants the care allowance must abolish. It is an educational and
equality policy disaster, wrong incentives and
completely nonsensical. We will care benefit immediately again
abolish and for scheduled agents in the development and
Invest quality of childcare.
Families have always been something colorful. But the German
Family Law does not reflect this diversity. We want all children, regardless of family form in which they grow up, the
equal protection, the same funding and support from
out of the state. With the new legal institute of parental
Shared responsibility we want the relationship of children to their
social parents in particular in patchwork and rainbow families
strengthen. In addition, we will work to ensure that all
People who take responsibility for each other, learn to strengthen their rights.

145

Time for the green transformation

3. Strengthening participation of children and adolescents

Participation for young and old

The focus of our policy the welfare of each child and stands
each youth. We give children and young people
independent rights one, we want to promote and protect targeted
they where families can not afford this. For this purpose we want to explicitly include rights of children and adolescents in the Basic Law, the
Implementation of the UN Children's Rights Convention by an independent
Promote monitoring and the action plan for a child-friendly
Germany hang up.
The voting age we want to reduce, so that young people no later than
from the age of 16 can vote. We accept children
and young people with their concerns seriously and put on a youth policy that encourages and enables them to develop their own distinct identity. A child and youth friendly urban development, it relates an active and considered their needs.
This is in the promotion of projects for urban development through
State resources to be considered.
We want coverage genuine empowerment for
Children and adolescents. This also means that we in the Affected
Youth help strengthen, by supporting Ombudschaften, and
reinforced alternative forms of organization such as Youth parliaments or youth councils promote, which are equipped with an application and the right to vote for political decisions. It is for
clear: All young people, whether with or without disabilities, with
or without an immigrant background, whatever their sexual orientation,
belong to.

4. Space for teenagers
We stand for an emancipatory youth policy. That is, a
More on social justice, self-responsibility and self-reliance for young people.
The generation of today's young people is deeply divided.
Many look with optimism in their future, but others are
already convinced that we are on the dark side of life. The
Inequity, which in the early years underachievers by

146

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Participation for young and old

Che's education system could not be compensated, installed
these young people their future. Here it must be continuously supported and promoted. In addition, young people are always look
exposed to higher pressure: Education needs to prepare for the job market, every minute of free time is scheduled and free time, the self-
can be made, is a scarce commodity. It just young people need space to try it. We want
young people open them again and required clearances
aspire to the much-needed social debate.
Young people are in front of particular significance to the infrastructure
Location dependent. Diverse Youth Services offers a strong youth work and support for forms of self-organization
allow young people more participation. Young people need
these spaces to be alone, to meet and exchange, spaces to develop. Alcohol bans and travel restrictions in public places, we reject.
The individual legally entitled to educational assistance, we will not touch them. We will continue to develop the educational assistance and concepts for stronger Sozialraumorientierung
connect and institutional networking.
We want the structural and financial environment of youth work, youth association work, youth social work and
Counseling centers for young people secure. For this purpose, we will
Continue to develop and expand Child and Youth Plan of the Federation.
For youth work is also preventive work. Are teenagers
in many youth centers Our municipalities of girlfriends and
collected and find attentive social workers
Following school, education, work and society. Not least because we want to improve the financial situation of the municipalities.
The Internet is from the daily lives of children and adolescents
indispensable. Strengthening skills in dealing
with these media and the sensitivity for the protection of their own
Data on the Internet therefore has to work all that young people
accompany belong.

147

Time for the green transformation

5. participation and self-determination at the age

Participation for young and old

It is good news that people are living longer
and always longer stay healthy and agile. But the question of how
we are still alive as well as possible, even when we are old, and how we
our fortunes also can determine if we on the
Help others depend, nevertheless employs many people.
But participation and self-determination must be possible well into old age - despite restrictions that can bring the aged with him.
Necessary therefore are more health prevention and age-appropriate jobs, an expansion in training programs, but
also a change in the work culture in which knowledge and experience
the elderly and dedication of the young are combined so that
many people can remain in employment until retirement.
Given the demographic change and the shortage of specialists, it is also a commandment of economic reason. In fact
but threaten declining real wages, precarious employment and acquiring negative incentives such as income splitting more and more people, especially women, to send in old age in poverty. A social cleavage at the age we want to confront with a
Guarantee pension above the long-standing insured a pension
the basic security guarantees. The participation of older people needs
but more than material security: mobility concepts in city
and the country that meet the needs of different population groups, the barrier-free access to culture and an achievable health infrastructure and affordable housing are
it is just as important.
The number of elderly and dependent people will increase significantly and increasingly alone and without relatives
live. New concepts for living together and the design
be the infrastructure of residential, nursing and social services
therefore important. Tenders for Help the Aged decide
if the desire for self-determination of the elderly reality
can be. For us it is clear: Care must be as close to home organized, it must be based on the needs of the elderly
and their families are based, outpatient support the
Give priority and with cultural and religious influences
sensitively deal. This can be funded by a care

148

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Participation for young and old

citizens' insurance in the deposit all citizens
and in all types of income are included.
Ageing has become varied and colorful. The dominant images of aging in the key areas of the company
the diversity of age do not do justice. We want people
support, the new forms of housing and other forms of itself
Cohabitation for old age and of different generations
wish, and will promote places of overlapping of generations, so that the generations not further apart
move away: in neighborhood centers, in volunteer centers and to
other public places. Long since many older people live due to the
increased labor mobility is no longer in the family compound. Also the
Number of single and childless people is increasing. Here applies there, the necessary social and technical infrastructure in the districts
to promote, build small social safety nets to support initiative and the people in the design of residential areas
involve.

6. A new contract between the generations -
a new co
We are getting older and fewer. A future challenge of
momentous is the demographic changes which in structurally weak regions young by the continuing exodus
People will be exacerbated dramatically. This change affects not only economic issues, but he touches on profound questions of life plans, freedom and recognition.
Our new generation contract to the tasks and burdens
redistribute between old and young. The dog may the wishes and
Concerns of generations not play against each other, but
Rather must ensure greater cooperation. The reform of our social security systems, we make sure that they are good one
Livelihood and good care for the older ones do without
overtaxing the boys. And we want to create places of overlapping of young and old - even beyond the classic
Family relationships, so that the generations move away from each other, not on.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

149

Time for the green transformation

Who chooses GREEN ...
• gets good daycare centers for each child.
• fighting child poverty and promoting life with children,
through the gradual introduction of a children's basic benefits
for all children.
• ensures greater say for children and adolescents.
• improves work-life balance.

Participation for young and old

• want independent living into old age.

Key projects
The care allowance abolish - good
Better to expand day-care centers
In many places there is a lack of day-care places. Therefore, we must quickly more
create and also high-quality daycare spaces. For us it is clear,
that the federal government has a responsibility, because it has a lot going on simultaneously: The right to claim from Augst 2013 in force must
adequately funded, the need to be planned realistically.
Thus, the quality does not fall by the wayside, we define nationwide quality standards. And of course it requires additional
Professionals who are trained to become a relevant part at university level and adequately paid. We also call the
Extension of the legal entitlement to a full-time place in Kita
or in family day care and support need-based expansion of all-day care in all age groups. We want a real freedom of choice for families, which is only guaranteed by the fact that for all families who want it, a Kita place
is available. The care allowance, the Children of early childhood

150

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

cher formation excludes cemented old role models and the expansion of daycare spaces blocked, we are creating from. So all the children get a chance to develop their potentials and interests, and thus
we create the conditions for a genuine reconciliation of
Professional and parents-being.

Give families more time - family-friendly
Promote working time models

Participation for young and old

Time is a scarce commodity, especially when the parents are working for families. We want to give mothers and fathers more flexibility to bring their working hours with the demands of their family in line - without this forever equal a down
their entire professional biography includes. We are introducing a right to return to full-time work and thus complement the anchored in part-time and temporary employment law right to part-time at a decisive point. Also, a further development of the part of parents' money and
a more flexible parental leave lead to more leeway. To
leaving more time for the family.

For equitable family support - in the
Children enter basic security
In our rich country, many children live in poverty. Our goal is
a society in which no child lives in poverty and in every child
has equal value. Every child, regardless of income its
Families should receive the same financial support from the state. We want to in the next legislature the entry into a
Provide children basic security. Going to the children basic security
Children rule sets, children's allowance and the tax exemption for children completely. We want to make use of this means that
freely by changing the Ehegattensplitting. In one
first step will be, among other things, the rule sets for kids
Raise, that they cover the actual needs of children.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

151

Time for the green transformation

For real youth participation - voting age 16 now!

Participation for young and old

The right to vote is one of the most important democratic rights,
Have citizens in a democracy, in order to influence decisions. We are committed to ensuring that young people finally to
be involved this democratic decision-making.
Therefore, we will lower the voting age to 16 years, at all levels. Only then get young people really have one vote.
In addition, we are political education programs at all levels
expand because a say to young people only if
they have the opportunity to be adequately informed about the political situation.

152

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

I. A healthy environment and healthy
Nutrition for all
How do we get what sustains us

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

A healthy environment and healthy eating for all

Decades of environmental protection, our rivers clean, the
Pure air and made the forests healthy. The Greens have
and achieved environmental movement, often at odds with powerful lobbies and economic interests and often against the polemics and
the resistance of CDU, CSU, FDP and too often also by the
SPD.
But still our forests are severely damaged, are over
80% of water in poor condition. Pesticides from the
Agriculture contaminate food and textiles. Allergies
take and caused by a contaminated environmental diseases
to, especially in children. Extinction of species, monocultures and land consumption increasing steadily, unfazed by political speeches.
And in the seas soon swim more plastic waste than fish.
Green policy minimizes the impact on our environment, thus
we can all live healthier. We want the diversity of nature for
protect us and future generations. For this we need
ourselves from a narrowed on quantitative growth of affluence term. We must get away from factory farms and factory farming towards a nature-friendly peasant agriculture. Strawberries in winter, clementines in the summer, the whole
Year asparagus - the ecological price for the everlasting
Availability of non-seasonal fruit and vegetables is high.
What we all know, but too often forget that we have the earth
borrowed it from our children. For a life that stronger again
is in harmony with nature, we need an agreement as
we deal with our environment and how we the diversity of species
obtain and protect habitats.
Environmental protection is also an elementary justice question
The prerequisite for participation in society. Because there are always
the poorest who compete for dwindling resources the shortest

153

Time for the green transformation

A healthy environment and healthy eating for all

Pull zeren - world and also here in Germany. Noise and
Just take the exhaust gases, which not afford expensive residential area
be able. But clean water, healthy food and clean air
may just as protection against harmful to health
Noise be no question of the purse. People who work
ill or environment, need an adequate treatment.
Well in any other policy area is as clear as in the
Environmental policy, what is at stake: get livelihood, take precautions, create the future. The challenges are enormous,
resistors large. Not only the policy must change, but also the way we live and work.
This requires informed consumers,
bold environment, nature and animal rights activists and committed
, Implement farmers and farmers who produce regional and organic animal welfare in animal husbandry and care for the landscape and nature. Everyone can for a better environment
interfere with the basket - the health food store and in discount stores.
This requires a clear and reliable labeling for organic, regional and fair trade products. In addition, it is important that
Children develop skills in dealing with nature and the environment.
Therefore we want to ensure sustainable environmental education,
Conveys values ​​and motivates children to experience nature and want to preserve.

1. A healthy environment and healthy life
Environmental impact we want to go through strict limits to a minimum. The EU REACH regulation we want to improve so that only safe chemicals on the
Market come and dangerous substances replaced by safe
become. About Us GREEN is clear that chemistry plays a key role in the ecological transformation of the industrial society.
Therefore, we want to promote a chemical reversal and the production and use of environmentally friendly, harmless to health chemicals. We want that the manufacturer shall be liable for the marketing of dangerous substances.

154

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

A healthy environment and healthy eating for all

Intact soil, clean water and clean air are a prerequisite for a healthy life. We want Europe to enforce ambitious targets for the protection of soil. The German
Blockade of the European Soil Framework Directive, we want to end, and the integration of soil protection in the various
Strengthen specialized laws to prevent new soil contamination by pollutants or erosion possible. We seek, in
Coordination with the countries, a reorganization of all contaminated sites up to
2050 on, where that is technically necessary. For the waters
and groundwater, it is necessary to achieve the requirements of the EC Water Framework Directive and the so-called good ecological
State or the good quantitative and chemical status
as soon as possible to prepare. Salt discharges into rivers must be stopped.
The limit values ​​for air pollutants such as mercury, nitrogen oxides and particulate matter, we want to further reduce. In addition, set
we with us for the abolition of exemptions again
incineration and the introduction of ambitious
Limit values ​​for other material groups. Promoting
unconventional natural gas in particular by means of toxic chemicals ("fracking"), we reject due to the unforeseeable threats
Health and the environment from. They also hinder climate change and
Energy revolution. For existing conventional oil and gas subsidies, we want to help the countries to increase the conveying rate significantly. Even the threats of the iron hydroxide
from the Braunkohletagebau we want to halt and when
conventional extraction of raw materials in Germany, we place
great importance to environmental protection and transparency.
In homes, offices and classrooms, the air pollution is now in some cases higher than outside. Therefore, we need more stringent health requirements as for building materials or office equipment. Noise and light pollution are now
massive problems for nature and health. Noise stresses and makes
sick in the long run. Particularly in public buildings and public places is paid particular attention to the use of noise-reducing, room acoustics-enhancing materials and on
unnecessary sonication to dispense. As we in traffic noise

155

Time for the green transformation

want to avoid, we have in the chapter "Sustainable mobility for
all "described.
There is evidence of health risks from electromagnetic pollution. Because of the complexity of disease causes and disease patterns
in a pollutant-rich world where the risks are not exactly
. Rate So here's the precautionary principle must engage. We sit
us for preventive-oriented and child-oriented limits. Municipalities and population are in the siting of cellular towers
get more participation rights.

2. Protect the diversity of nature

A healthy environment and healthy eating for all

Every day be eradicated from the human animal and plant species. In Germany 40% of vertebrate species are in its inventory
threatened or already extinct. Their habitats are cut or destroyed, refuges, there are only a few.
We sawing off the branch on which we all sit. Because as part
nature, man can only live if he retains his natural foundations of life.
We Greens want the diversity of nature, the wealth of their
Style and the beauty of semi-natural landscapes nationwide
protect and preserve for future generations. Our
Children should still see storks and can experience Moore and ancient beech forests! More "wilderness" in the form of intact habitats
as bogs, alluvial forests, or "forests" are fascinating perspectives for which it is worthwhile to make policy for us. In cities
we will work to protect the street trees and
Establish nature experience areas for children and adolescents. You will find also secured their own livelihoods! Us
understand conservation as interagency policy approach. That is why we want to anchor the conservation in all policy areas
- Of the environmental education on sustainable development, agriculture,
Forestry to transportation planning. But we also want the
Use collaboration of federal and state governments and strengthen the legal competence leeway for this.
We want the protection areas for threatened and endangered species, inter alia, natural effect through management plans

156

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

A healthy environment and healthy eating for all

protect, better networking and creating new ones. We want to
German nature conservation law in the context of existing proven
EU nature conservation directives modernize. The federal program
Biodiversity, we want to upgrade to an interministerial government program and to increase financial support. Where
Not allow intervention in nature and landscape, avoid should
the damage to be compensated primarily real. Still fall
in Germany every day around 80 hectares of new construction and transport projects for the victims. This corresponds to a year in about the city
Munich. In order to go long term important agricultural and forestry land and protected areas lost. We want
the net land take by 2020 to more than 30 hectares on
Reduce long day and stop completely. We want taxes
and taxes with ecologically effective components provided (eg
the real estate tax), so the use of brownfields, unsealing
and dismantling is more attractive than resealing.
Rivers will flow freely, forests can grow close to nature. Therefore we want to 5% of the forest area, including 10% of the public forests, take from forestry operations and
achieve a semi-natural forest management on the other 95%. Therefore
we want to amend the Forest Act in accordance with ecological standards.
The right to hunt is at near-natural forest management, environmentally friendly agriculture, the interests of nature conservation
and align the requirements of animal welfare. We want to
received last remaining free-flowing rivers in Germany. A
further expansion of the Elbe and Danube and near-natural sections
all other rivers we refuse therefore. Floodplains should - also
for the purposes of flood protection - under a national
Program are rehabilitated. The reconstruction of the federal waterway management we want in terms of managing for ecological
continue intact rivers. The assurance of the national natural heritage
must be continued and supported by a transfer from another 30,000 hectares of conservation areas. The federal government provides
the countries or foundations recognized all natural legitimate
Areas of his property for the sole purpose of securing the national natural heritage free of takeover on. On
initially 2% of the land area of ​​nature should be able to develop undisturbed.

157

Time for the green transformation

A healthy environment and healthy eating for all

We want to stop the pollution and noise pollution of the seas, stop global overfishing and North and Baltic Seas
Protect consistent. To global food security
not to compromise, the EU must above all their fishing activities
limit off the coasts of developing countries and strong
better control. The substantial avoidance of bycatch and
the implementation of the EU ban on discards, we want to at the national
Enforce ambitious level. Germany must be based on global
Engage intensively level for a global network of marine protected areas. We want the environmentally sound disposal of
intensify sunken World War munitions in North and Baltic Seas.
We stand against the unbridled exploitation of resources in the deep ocean, the Arctic and on land, to unique and
nor to obtain largely untouched habitats. Must also
Germany's commitments to protecting the rain forests and the
comply with biodiversity and again to a reliable
Are partners in the field of international species protection,
for an end to the dramatic plundering of virgin forests and
Wildlife populations used.
We want developing and emerging countries to protect their
natural resources support. But that alone is not enough:
International financing mechanisms to protect biodiversity have to get strong environmental and social barriers to
To strengthen human rights and the rights of indigenous peoples.

3. Better living with fewer resources
To the ecological limits of our planet do not hurt,
we absolutely must reduce our consumption of resources - we
So need to consume less overall. This is only a
consistent policy of resource-light business practices and rethink our consumption habits and lifestyles
possible. We want to achieve this through a systematic approach,
the possible rebound effects (increased consumption by increasing efficiency) prevented. This can be achieved by setting firm limits on resource consumption or emissions,
but also, as we highlight environmentally harmful subsidies, inputs

158

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

A healthy environment and healthy eating for all

River take on the pricing of resources and enable sustainable lifestyles and promote.
For few raw materials resource-efficient economies is indispensable. Resource efficiency reduces dependence on
Raw materials, making companies more competitive and preserves
Environment and climate. We want the absolute resource consumption
reduce our society and achieve better quality of life with fewer raw materials consumption. With in a comprehensive and consumer-friendly collection of recyclables
Households and businesses, we lay the foundation for a high-quality circular economy. Manufacturer, we want the responsibility
take, at the production stage on an ecologically optimized
Design and quality recycling respected. This could contribute to ecological steering effect as a resource tax. How will waste prevention enshrine as a legal target, promote value ratios and better conditions for
Provide re-use and repair. This and longer warranty periods we say of the throwaway society
Fight On. The disposable plastic bottle we want to push back,
et al through a levy on disposable packaging. Also plastic bags
we want to impose a tax and eco-friendly environment
Promote alternatives to plastic packaging. The current system
the collection of recyclables has to be fundamentally changed in order
to increase the proportion of recycling clearly and develop recycling targets for critical raw materials. The Packaging Ordinance, we want to replace, replace the dual systems by a central office at the federal level. Our electronic waste often ends up
illegal in distant lands. We want to stop illegal exports and
introduce effective take-back schemes in cooperation with retailers and manufacturers, as a first step, a mobile deposit.
Many people try today when shopping and in
their personal behavior to their ecological footprint
reduce. We encourage this individual and social
Changing lifestyles, by leveraging us for environmentally friendly mobility, reward energy saving and environmentally-regional
Promote production of food. We allow
more and more people to live a resource easy life.
And with the solidarity economy, we support those or-

159

Time for the green transformation

organizations locally that offer experimental spaces for sustainable production and consumption patterns of tomorrow today.

4. The future of agriculture is green

A healthy environment and healthy eating for all

We Greens stand for a regionally based, ecological and
multifunctional agriculture. Produces Green Agriculture
not only healthy and quality food and raw materials,
but preserves our ecosystems and natural resources,
she cultivates our cultural landscapes and is a sustainable backbone of the economy and the quality of life in rural areas.
Industrialised agriculture contrast exacerbates many environmental problems. Pesticides, fertilizers and dangerous germs contaminate water and soil. Monocultures displace biodiversity. We want the agricultural economy from the part of the problem
make it part of the solution. We rely on the mission statement
of organic farming and nature-friendly scale agriculture, on non-GM food and feed, processing and marketing of regional and animal-friendly livestock,
decentralized agricultural structures with all its regional differences.
The beginning of this new agricultural policy, we have made under the green Agriculture Minister Renate Künast. But with blackish and black and yellow was the relapse of an agricultural policy which
is focused on quantity instead of quality, at low cost production and agricultural surpluses for export. We want to change and the green Agrarwende evolve.
The current agricultural support accelerated structural change,
favored large farms and intensified the demand for the
scarce areas. Therefore we want to fundamentally transform. Negative developments as grassland, promoting
of new houses without additional animal welfare requirements or
the spread of maize monocultures should not be subsidized any longer. Instead, the agricultural payments should be linked to environmental and social benefits, such as the climate and
Environment, job creation and preservation of jobs, species-appropriate
Livestock or regional value. Only through such
We will promote the farming structures to further information

160

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

A healthy environment and healthy eating for all

protect industrialization of agriculture. Public money for
public performance - that is fair for all. This is our guideline
for ecological agrarian reform and its implementation in Germany. The black-yellow government has tried everything, of
the EU Commission proposed reforming the common agricultural policy and the 'greening' in the interests of agribusiness and the
Farmers' Association to block. This blockage is at the expense of
farms and the environment. We want Germany
future uses national design options to excessive
Cuts in the second pillar and the unjust distribution of agricultural payments mitigate. In particular we need the reclassification
15% of the funds from the basic premium for the 2nd pillar in
Combined with a degression of direct payments. The remaining EU export subsidies and other trade
Payments, leading to agricultural dumping the EU to developing countries, we want to emphasize. Instead, we sit down at EU level
to ensure that the promotion of organic agriculture and the implementation
the Habitats and Water Framework Directive to be strengthened.
We reject the cultivation and import of genetically modified
Plants as well as from genetically modified or cloned animals. The agricultural biotechnology has redeemed any of their promises. Instead of
Increase yields, it has increased the use of pesticides and the risks to the environment, people and animals. Makes agricultural biotechnology
our diet and our seed depend on a small number
of large corporations and ends the free agriculture and the
Organic farming. Agricultural biotechnology reduces the diversity of plant species, because the genetic engineering companies are buying up more and more breeders.
The further development of conventional varieties is neglected.
There is a high demand for research for an animal- and environmentally-friendly agriculture, which takes into account the challenges of climate change. Patents on plants, animals and humans
We reject strictly because they in farmers and consumers
perform a function of agribusinesses. We want, in the interests of the vast majority of consumers
our GMO-free agriculture and food industry and the
Beekeeping protect effectively against genetic contamination.
The area under organic cultivation, we intend to significantly expand,
thus the production of organic food rising consumer

161

Time for the green transformation

A healthy environment and healthy eating for all

chernachfrage not lagging longer. In the medium term we want for
throughout Germany an ecological agriculture with exacting standards, which go beyond the EU-Bio-Siegel. The partial conversion of holdings we no longer want to allow, in laying hens farms requires clear inventory limits. For protection
of natural resources, especially the bees that one of the
make important contributions to the conservation of biodiversity, the need to
Use of pesticides can be drastically reduced. We are the non-binding National Action Plan on Sustainable Use of
Removing pesticides to an effective pesticide reduction program and seek a fundamental worsening of the risk assessment and authorization procedure for pesticides. For
Agents like bees toxic neonicotinoids or glyphosate,
endanger the environment and human health, we are calling for a moratorium on application. We are developing alternative, biological
Support pesticides to replace pesticides. Us
want to liberalize the use of industrial hemp and poppy for farms.
Our vision is of carbon-neutral farm, which is independent of fossil fuels, emissions from fertilization
and livestock decreases, and multiply the carbon treasure our soils. For this purpose we want, for example, the preservation of grassland
promote and use of sustainably produced, his home
Vegetable oil and leguminous plants, the nitrogen from the
Bind air advancing. Also to the results from eutrophication emissions and nitrate pollution of soils, waters
and reduce groundwater, livestock must be closely linked to the domestic production of feed. The climate change
will force to major adjustment benefits agriculture.
We want to support them at an early stage.
Who produces quality food and landscape conservation, ie public functions accepts, deserves it also
a living wage. Therefore, we support, for example,
Dairy farmers and dairy farmers in their fight for fair
Milk price and the stop of overproduction. We want the women producers against the large dairies, the food industry
strengthen and trade. Also international price dumping has fatale
social consequences. We therefore reject the export-oriented agricultural policy

162

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

A healthy environment and healthy eating for all

policy from the federal government. But reverse is also true: The giant
Animal feed imports are just as damaging. Speculation in agricultural areas we want to counteract effectively. Given
More and more farms that have no more farm successors, we want the antiquated Hofabgabeklausel in the old-age insurance
Farmers pick. The remaining surfaces of the bottom Verwertungs
and -verwaltungs GmbH (BVVG) are in favor of a peasant
Agriculture be privatized and leased. With a change in the BVVG privatization principles we want to a wide
Dispersed ownership in the agricultural areas and to
contribute better chances of young farmers and new and Quereinsteigerinnen on the land market.
Social participation must be guaranteed in the country.
Regional and Bio is the first choice! Great opportunities for rural
Development offer The renewable energies, the ecological
Food industry and sustainable tourism. We want
Incentives for green professions create - especially in rural
Regions.

5. factory farming - no thanks!
In factory farms are cheap meat, dairy products and
Eggs bought by Millions of animal suffering and the massive use of antibiotics. Factory farming promotes biodiversity loss and climate change, because cleared for the large-scale cultivation of feed rainforest and grassland shall be broken. Nearly one-third
the world grain harvest lands in the feeding trough. To produce one kilogram of beef also be 15,000 liters of fresh water
consumed. This factory farming is increasingly in competition to feed the world's population. By promoted by large companies and industrial livestock production dumping meat exports, for example, in Africa the markets
destroyed for the local women producers. Even in Germany and Europe are small and medium-sized businesses by unfair
Dumping competition and price erosion driven as a result of overproduction in the ruin.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

163

Time for the green transformation

A healthy environment and healthy eating for all

We Greens hold this system of factory farming is not for
irresponsible. That is why we want to stop the construction of new stables and giant mega feedlots. The animal breeding is on health
align and live performance rather than torment breed always
more milk production, meat approach, egg or number of piglets without regard to the physiological limits of the living. The subsidizing factory farming should be abolished, just like her
Privileges in construction law. We want to withdraw all investments, which must be approved pollution control, the privilege. We want a new Animal Welfare Act for Proper
Housing conditions provide, creating a seamless transparency of the veterinary medicinal product flows and the antibiotics abuse
stricter posture and treatment rules and binding
Prevent antibiotic guidelines. The control system in the livestock must be significantly improved. Manure from factory farming and digestate from biogas plants have on their exposure to
be examined dangerous germs back to, if necessary, to take protective measures.
To reduce animal feed imports, we want the domestic
Increase production and livestock production more closely to the
bind domestic feed. In addition, the import of biomass, and hence feed must, to the adherence to strict
Human rights, environmental and social standards are linked.
Our consumption choices shape the world. This is particularly evident when it comes to meat consumption. Per capita per year we eat
German 60 liters of blood. This high meat consumption poses
not only health risks. It also enforces a factory farming, which takes no account of man, animals and the environment.
We therefore call for more consumer education on the health, social and environmental consequences of meat consumption.
Public canteens to take pioneering features. Offers of vegetarian and vegan dishes and a "Veggie Day"
should be the standard. We want a label for vegetarian
and vegan products.

164

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

6. Stop the Cruelty to Animals

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

A healthy environment and healthy eating for all

We are convinced that our animals have a right to a decent life without unnecessary suffering. Together with the
Animal welfare movement, we have ensured that the animal welfare
was admitted as a state objective in the Basic Law. Animals we want
protect its own sake, so we will revise the Animal Welfare Act thoroughly.
In order for the rights of animals can be better represented, we demand a right of collective action for recognized animal welfare organizations and a / n Federal Commissioner / n for animal welfare. also
we call main public prosecutors for animal welfare,
so that violations of the Animal Welfare Act can be effectively prosecuted
be able.
Animal Welfare and Animal Welfare will hold in the stables collection. This includes sufficient grazing and outlet. The cages for laying hens, rabbits and other animals must be stopped. It may no longer by German
Export guarantees for forbidden here caging in third countries
be encouraged. We want to introduce binding rules for breeding and husbandry for all species. The rearing of pigs
and cattle on bare concrete and slatted floors, the crowding of chickens and turkeys in a confined space, water fowl without access to water - all this is a scandal.
The keeping of farm animals must be the future of the species-specific, natural needs of a species and therefore on animal welfare
orient. Qual breeding and practice to adapt animals for example by cropping their beaks or tails of non-welfare systems or mistreat by branding want
we prohibit.
With pain related interventions such as the castration of piglets may be carried out only by anesthesia or must be omitted entirely.
Animal transports within Germany, we want to a period of
limit not exceeding four hours, and we want to improve the methods of slaughter in slaughterhouses. This includes checking
CO2 stunning, as well as the completion of the piecework
and the use of unqualified personnel. Consumers
consumers and we want it through a mandatory animal husbandry

165

Time for the green transformation

A healthy environment and healthy eating for all

facilitate labeling, to opt for products from such animals.
Animal experiments we want to reduce consistent and long term
replace completely. For this, we will promote the development of alternatives to animal testing by law and make their use mandatory. We call for a national center of excellence
for animal test methods. The Ethics Committee for review
of animal experiments, we want at least half with representatives
animal welfare occupy. Experiments on great apes should strictly
be prohibited.
For the protection of pets we want a technical instruction
introduce. Also we need to better protect wildlife. For calling
we. their attitude in the circus, to prohibit an amendment to the legal requirements for the Zootierhaltung The import and private
Attitude we settle on the introduction of a positive list and a
Prohibition Wildlife exchanges. At the European level of animal welfare needs through import bans from among animal tormenting conditions
produced products, hunting trophies and wild-caught animals to be strengthened. International we want to protect endangered species
advance further within the meaning of the precautionary principle.

166

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Who chooses GREEN ...
• ensures ago for an intact environment and nature, and a healthy life.
• supports the preservation of biodiversity.
• says "No thanks" to agricultural factories, factory farming and
Genetically Modified Food.
• promotes organic farming, regional marketing and rural
Agriculture.

A healthy environment and healthy eating for all

• agrees for animal protection and animal welfare.
• protect our livelihoods and resources worldwide.

Key projects
The home of Stork and frog
protect - Natural Heritage
The livelihoods of many indigenous plants and animals at risk. More and more species will be lost habitat. The implementation of conservation goals is lagging behind in Germany and internationally far. Therefore, we will ensure that the Federal Government and
Countries finally meet their legal obligations and
for 10% of the land cross-border biotope networked systems
create. In particular, our old, native beech forests
under threat. Through ever more intense thinning their biodiversity is decimated. But also for recreation and nature experience
People are ancient forests invaluable. With a federal program we want in cooperation with the provinces 10%
the forests that are publicly owned, to jungles

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

167

Time for the green transformation

make of tomorrow, in the corporate and private forests also may be introduced.

Ending factory farming - a new
Animal Protection Act for welfare

A healthy environment and healthy eating for all

What takes place in our stables, is no longer acceptable. The
Factory farming has led to conditions that make the end of the present system of meat production required. We want
quit subsidizing factory farming, underline their privileges in construction law and enhance the emission protection
and introduce a label for animal welfare as well as vegan and vegetarian products. A new Animal Welfare Act, we ensure for proper housing conditions, create total transparency
Veterinary drug flows and stop the abuse of antibiotics by more stringent posture and treatment rules. By
the significant reduction in the use of antibiotics in livestock production, we ensure the same for a sustainable environment and
Health. At European level, we are committed to
better animal welfare rules in animal husbandry.

Take a deep breath - air pollution and
Promote health
In many industrial processes and combustion processes, for example, in
Coal power plants produced mercury via the exhaust in
Environmental arrives. This leads to a further enrichment of the environmental toxin in food, especially in fish. The USA
have therefore adopted strict limits to reduce mercury pollution significantly. We want to change the Immission Control Ordinance accordingly and will work to EU-wide for demanding limits to cross-border industry in
to take the obligation for a healthy environment. So we are creating clean air for all.

168

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

J. Sustainable mobility for all
As we a green road network
create, with all live well

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Sustainable mobility for all

Mobility is freedom of movement. It is an indispensable part of our lives, a prerequisite for participation in society and
Expression of freedom and self-realization. At the same time the car traffic causing noise and congestion, it harms the environment and
the air and he inflicted an unacceptably high number of deaths
and injured. Our goal is a sustainable mobility that is environmental and climate-friendly, socially and economically efficient.
Traffic always attracts interest conflicts. Forever
more citizens mingle so into their own
Transport policy and want to help shape: conflicts such as to Stuttgart 21, the Fehmarnbelt, new
Motorway sections and the planned airport in Berlin or the
third runway in Munich are examples. For large projects
are an early participation of concerned citizens and
Civil society and an open-ended discussion of alternatives urgently needed. The current development of Stuttgart 21
but shows one thing: It takes from the beginning of an honest dealing with costs, risks and environmental impacts due to location
the actual capacity.
Sustainable mobility sets priorities in favor of public transport, cycling and walking and linked
different modes of transport. Sustainable mobility shifts the
Cargo transport from road to rail or to waterways
and avoids transport as by strengthening regional economic cycles. Environmentally-friendly transport be strengthened and motorized traffic ecologically compatible
designed. Thus, the load is reduced by noise and pollution
especially in urban areas.
In many municipalities, the allocation of land and the means of transport is to the public space, wrestled. Modern
Transport policy is made thereafter, all men the greatest

169

Time for the green transformation

Sustainable mobility for all

to make possible freedom of movement and at the same time the negative
To keep consequences of motorized traffic as low as possible.
In addition, create urban and rural areas, different mobility needs, which should also be considered.
Our goal is the participation of all mobility, whether in the city
or across the country - and at affordable prices. This also applies to
those who do not have a car - as we promote public transport and to support socially acceptable tariffs.
We rely on new mobility offers that of a Combined Use
Allowing foot, bicycle, train, bus and car-sharing on a route.
We involve the citizens in planning new
Roads actively, because they have something to say and because only
Acceptance brings new mobility rolling. Interference is about
asked the next Federal Transport Infrastructure Plan, we a
Want to develop federal mobility plan, but also for many
Local projects.
We create the future by implementing the energy turnaround in traffic. We want to move away from oil and focus on sustainable,
regenerative drives and electromobility with electricity from renewable sources. We want to make transport safer and
Reduce traffic noise and emissions significantly.

1. A transport network for all
More and more people use the bicycle and the train everyday. The deals on Carsharing and bike sharing are spreading
and are always easier to use through smartphones and Internet
and so enable new forms of mobility. These successes are
not there because of but in spite of the transport policy of black and yellow.
These preferred mainly the car in front of bus, train and bike
and plans as to the needs of many people over.
However green transport policy wants a new mobility for all.
We want a reliable and barrier-free availability of public transport in rural areas, in particular more
funded alternative operating forms such as call and citizen buses. At
traffic planning we want through gender mainstreaming and
consider the needs of people who due to social

170

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Sustainable mobility for all

and family duties are otherwise mobile. Is increasingly gaining acceptance
the principle of "benefits have held" by: Combined mobility
from walking and cycling, bus and train, taxi and car- or bike-sharing with a single mobility card and Mobility Apps make transport easy, fast and flexible. The basis for this
are open data and open standards with consistent safeguarding
data protection. Both need for publicly funded projects
be mandatory and companies. We want a nationwide
Image campaign for car-pooling to traffic loads
to reduce.
We want to enable the municipalities, the conditions for
CarSharing parking spaces on public roads, for congestion charging models, car-free downtown areas and shared space zones
create. States and municipalities need also a secured
Financing basis for an ambitious public transport offensive until
towards pilot projects for a ticket-free transport. It must
In addition, a demand for the follow-up financing
attributable federal Municipal Transport Financing Act
2019 also give. We make the country bicycle and pedestrian friendly and require more space for the ecological and
healthy walking and cycling. For this purpose, we intend to increase the nationwide bicycle share by 2020 to over 20% - in some
Cities is more than twice as high proportion already a reality. Us
want to promote the construction of Radschnellwegen a nationwide pilot project. We are the National Cycling Plan
fill them with life, financially inferior enough and the bike
strengthen in the Road Traffic Act. The bicycles in all trains, even the ICE, we want to enforce.
In the laws for transport financing, we will
to ensure that adequate public funding
is ensured. We will for the development of
Regionalization means used to cost increases and service improvements can finance. We want to exclude future use for unauthorized purposes. We want the next
ten years make public transport throughout accessible. The web is its share of traffic considerably
boost up. For this purpose we invest 1 billion euros per year in addition to the
Expansion of the rail network with noise protection. This we finance, domestic 171

Time for the green transformation

we break with past practice, that within the DB AG
the billions in profits of infrastructure sectors are paid to the parent company and this therefore internationally on a shopping spree
goes, instead of the profits to reinvest in infrastructure. Therefore
we call for a transfer of the railway infrastructure in the
immediate federal property and assist the 4th railway package of the European Commission. The management of regional
Rail networks should be offered to countries for lease. Us
want to exclude permanently that private investors shares in the
Acquire rail network.

2. implement the road turn with the energy revolution!

Sustainable mobility for all

Our goal is, by 2020 greenhouse gas emissions from transport
to reduce by 20%. The Vision 2040 is the traffic almost
completely switch to renewable energy. This is ambitious,
but possible: By avoiding unnecessary transports
Shift traffic to rail and bicycle as well as the widespread introduction of sustainable, regenerative drives in
simultaneous development of infrastructure of renewable energy power. Electromobility is only compatible with the environment,
if the electricity is generated from renewable energy sources.
We want a paradigm shift in the use of biomass
for mobility. They must be limited in the long term on areas
where there is no alternative.
Today's traffic is more than 90% of fossil fuels
dependent. The energy transition in the transport demands of the automotive industry a technology shift to electric mobility with additional electricity from renewable sources. The trail then
about much more efficient drive systems, hybrid technology and lightweight
the bodies. Their production and distribution are most likely encouraged by ambitious consumption targets. We want
Therefore, within the European Union by 2020, the 3-liter car
(80 g CO2 / km) and by 2025, the 2-liter car (60 g CO2 / km) than
Enforce requirements for new vehicles. The privileges for large
gas-guzzling limos service, we want to emphasize and incentives
provide for the use of particularly economical cars. We will do this

172

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Sustainable mobility for all

to be financed by a CO2 reforming the vehicle tax. We want
an extension of the tax relief for natural gas through 2018
Check fuel, if at least 40% of the fuel from bio-methane or power to gas originate. The power to gas process
an integration of renewable electricity into the surplus
Transport permit. We want to complete the changeover
of railroads on Renewable Energies at the latest 2030th
To shift from truck traffic we want the combined
Promote transport and rail transport with friendly residents
expand modern noise protection standards. The LkwMaut needs to be further developed into a logistics delivery, ie in future take account of the external environmental costs and
Truck be extended from 3.5 tonnes and to all main roads. We also want to add to the toll long distance buses.
Be the pilot project with the "Monster Trucks" (LHVs)
We end. Delivery traffic in the cities we want through the
Make promotion of cooperation delivery, cargo bikes and electric vans environmentally friendly.
We will take initiatives to maritime clean
making, and want the major seaports for Germany
better coordinated through a port concept incl. hinterland connections.
IWT we want to promote if it ecological
and are economic advantages over other modes of transport
and the ships adjust the rivers. Air traffic is associated with strong environmental and noise pollution. The growth of
Air traffic will significantly by municipal aid for regional airports and the subsidy from tax privileges in the
Energy taxation and VAT on international flights
favors. These subsidies we want to stop and the air traffic tax and the emissions trading designing ecological.
The short-haul traffic, we want to move on the rail.

173

Time for the green transformation

3. the new federal mobility plan
develop with citizens

Sustainable mobility for all

Roads, railways and waterways are planned - about every 15
Years by a Federal Transport Infrastructure Plan. In the next legislature, it is time again: in 2015 a new transport plan will be adopted. We Greens want that this plan is the first in which the citizens involved in planning, shaping
and have a say.
Every year, the federal government is about 10 billion euros for the construction and maintenance
highways, major roads, railways and waterways from
and participates in the airports of Berlin, Cologne and Munich. Unfortunately,
is this money too often in expensive and dubious prestige projects
or unnecessary new highways plugged.
The new Federal Transport Infrastructure Plan 2015 offers the opportunity
for reversing. We want to develop from a federal mobility plan. The selection of infrastructure projects to the future
more on environmental and nature conservation concerns and demographic
Oriented development. The project costs including the need to
Follow-up costs, for example, be shown in full for bridges and tunnels.
We want to set clear priorities: When road budget we want
spend significantly more money for the preservation and the remaining funds on a highway core network concentrate with noise and promote a program for green bridges. We want to
Competitive tendering and the creation of technical
Ensure conditions that many regions suspended
be reconnected to the long-distance transport. In the rail
aims to develop a long-term objective in 2050 network, which is designed for a Germany-wide interval timetable with an improved passenger and more capacity for freight
creates. We want to, inter alia, a national airport concept for more
Noise development, which includes the possibility of expansion stops. The waterways it comes to obtaining a reasonable
Infrastructure, rather than unique river landscapes like the Elbe and
Danube to ruin.
We want a comprehensive right to information in all planning steps - also on the "if" of a project - that inclusion

174

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

the public and legal requirements for the use of informal participation methods and alternative conflict resolution
for administration. The flight route planning we want transparent
and make citizens friendly. For a modern infrastructure can only be successful if it is accepted socially.

4. make transport safe and quieter

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Sustainable mobility for all

With the "Vision Zero" program, we want to make the road safer, with the aim that no more errors lead to serious accidents or death. We want a general speed limit of
120 km / h on motorways and 80 km / h on dual carriageway roads. We will create the legal conditions for
that municipalities will allow for the sake of traffic safety and noise protection, built-up areas everywhere pace to instruct 30, where they want it.
We want to advance the protection against traffic noise and sit down for a ban on night flights at airports, improved
Noise protection for roads and railways, quieter
Vehicle Technology a. The noise privilege for the web we want to abolish, as the noise privileges for road and air traffic.
People who are affected by noise, are in their rights
be strengthened and a broader right to noise protection
have. Investments to actively eliminate noise sources
and for passive noise protection we want within the transport budget
double to 400 million euros per year. The goal is a ten-year
Fully comprehensive noise abatement program.

175

Time for the green transformation

Who chooses GREEN,
• selects sustainable mobility.
• will also enforce the energy and climate turnaround in traffic.
• established train, bus and bicycle as Leitverkehrsmittel.
• relies on citizen participation and transparency in planning
of transport projects.

Sustainable mobility for all

• protect people against noise, air pollution and road accidents.

Key projects
Make the railways more attractive - transport
expand, invest profits in the rail
We want to make the web as an ecological main means of transport more attractive and increase their share of traffic considerably - for
People as for goods. Therefore, we must promote meaningful expansion projects of European networks and for the financial framework for rail and road needs in the next federal mobility plan
be the same. But it must also be ensured that the
Remain profits from the rail operation even in the rail and
are not used for international buyouts. In Federal Transport Infrastructure Plan, we want also the priority of receipt
New commit. We want to ensure, through tender competitions and the creation of the technical prerequisites that many false regions are reconnected to the long-distance transport.

176

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Protect residents from traffic noise
- Limit aircraft noise, remove noise

Sustainable mobility for all

Many resist the increasing traffic noise - and rightly so,
because noise makes people ill. We want the issue of noise protection at the federal level at last take seriously after the Merkel government
has neglected: We provide a broader entitlement to
Noise protection and double the funding for noise abatement at
Road and rail. To combat aircraft noise we want a
Amendment of the Aircraft Noise Act with more stringent limit values ​​and of the Aviation Act to operating restrictions on the
Regulatory night (22: 00 clock: 00-06) permit and noise limits. The noise of the population must be given a higher priority than the economy in the balancing of interests.
Also at EU level, we will fight for the appropriate frameworks.

Livable communities - expand environmental alliance
The transport revolution also demands a change in the local mobility
to more walking and cycling and public transport. Us
want to enable mobility for all and in the next decade coverage barrier-free mobility. We want a ÖPNVOffensive. In return we will provide adequate public transport funding. The Highway Code is stronger
geared to the needs of vulnerable road users. For this purpose, we want to enable local authorities, urban areas everywhere
there Tempo 30, meeting areas and shared space areas expel, where they want it. We want cycling more comfortable and
make it more attractive and thereby also the trend towards pedelecs and EBikes justice. For the bicycle needs more space. Us
therefore want to encourage, inter alia, the construction of Radschnellwegen by a nationwide pilot project.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

177

Time for the green transformation

Climate-friendly mobile - consumption limits
introduce and promote electromobility

Sustainable mobility for all

The energy transition in the transport demands of the auto industry a
Technology shift to the 2-liter car and the electric mobility
with additional electricity from renewable sources. The most important
Drivers of this are ambitious fuel economy. We will therefore
within the European Union ambitious consumption targets that ensure that electromobility will be made to prevail. That's why we change the car tax, so that
Cars with an output of less than 50 g CO2 / km (2-liter car), such as Electric cars and plug-in hybrids, receive a subsidy and for gas guzzlers pay correspondingly more. Special
We attach great importance to the rational combination and expansion of
electric mobility transport, which are powered by electricity from renewable sources. We want the implementation of 100% renewable energy in all sectors - electric cars, e-bikes, pedelecs
and public local and regional transport - as well as the development of intelligent mobility concepts.

178

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

K. consumer protection for all
How do we strengthen consumer rights -
create and transparency

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Consumer protection for all

Dioxin in eggs. Horseflesh in the lasagne. Unfair energy prices.
Banks that trick. Devices that the expiry of the warranty
Give up spirit. Who protects the consumers and
Consumers?
We Greens have consumer protection and healthy diet
put on the political agenda. But under the Merkel government's consumer policy in the Sleeping Beauty
expire - with a weak enforcement Minister whose announcements rarely followed deeds. This has to change again. Too
this end, we want to strengthen the rights of consumers, the protection
improve against fraud and for healthy and safe food
to care.
We are creating a solid foundation for emancipated consumers so that producers and consumers can meet as equals.
Consumers have a responsibility to put through their consumption behavior a sign of sustainability, which sets
appropriate knowledge about the products ahead. Green Consumer Policy sets in addition to effective government regulations and controls also ensure that consumers consider offers critical,
Can denounce abuses and to interfere. They need better information, strong consumer organizations
and effective legal protection.
Consumer protection is for us a question just participation. Who
little has, the pain excessive energy prices or usurious
Dispo-interest especially. Social exclusion threatens when people denied a private checking account or the power is turned off.
And who can not much to pay, must rely on
can that offered safe products and financial services are reputable. This applies in particular for services in
Interest. Reject a privatization of water supply

179

Time for the green transformation

We therefore from, because drinking water is our most important food
and must not be transferred to profit maximization oriented private companies.
Green consumer policy makes it easier to the basket
To take responsibility for the future. For this need
Consumers better and easily understandable information
in everyday and simple language. Well-informed consumers
can consciously decide to leave the cheap schnitzel from intensive livestock farming in the refrigerated section to choose energy-saving devices or
by fair trade products for fair working conditions
use worldwide. We aim to encourage good seal as Fairtrade, organic and GMO.

1. make consumers powerful

Consumer protection for all

Knowledge is power. That is why we want to close gaps in the Consumer Information Act and extend the information requirements on risky financial and insurance products. Consumers
want to know rightly what's inside in products and services. We stand for a reliable and transparent labeling, to enable the selection of sustainable products. What already exists in foods with the organic label,
we need also in other areas such as in financial products. Insufficient wages for temporary workers at Amazon, unsustainable
Working conditions for garment workers in Bangladesh, unfair
Pressure on employees at banks: There are many behaviors that responsible consumers do not want to accept. Thus they form a true picture of the handling of
Companies with social and environmental requirements, can do with their behavior towards customers, we will
together with consumer associations, a consumer portal
Bring corporate check on the way. We will ensure
Insert that companies integrate social and ecological minimum standards in production and sales in Germany and comply with the world and their CSR standards for consumers can be identified.
We rely on active consumer education with an extended
Educational and advisory services consumer organizations. Among

180

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Consumer protection for all

others for the financial market we want to establish an independent market guards under the umbrella of the consumer centers. You should
watching the market from a consumer perspective and the public
inform, investigate complaints, combine consumer interests and get a complaint and right to be heard in relation to the Financial Regulator. Funding an independent consumer representation must be secured permanently. For want
we change the antitrust, antitrust fines for financial strengthening
Insert consumers work and a right of collective action for the
Check consumer associations. The ministerial approval we want to
add a suspensive veto of the German Bundestag.
In order to focus the power of consumers,
we want to allow class actions. So victim can
join together in court and their right faster and
easier to enforce. We will examine whether the introduction of a
Can contribute to ombudsman.
The basic requirement for conscious consumption is that companies are committed to their environmental and social conditions of production, including their upstream supply chains
documenting and disclosing. Only in this way can consumers
and NGOs assess green claims by companies and
reputable enterprises by unseriösem greenwashing differ. To substantiate consumer policy scientifically want
we set up an Advisory Council on Consumer Affairs, the
Critical attention to policies and institutions in matters relating to consumer policy and advises.

2. Stop the rip-off
Every day thousands of consumers victims of illegal telemarketing calls with the aim of them unwanted contracts
foist. In order for this telephone terror ceases, may such
Contracts in the future only apply if the callee confirm them in writing. Hold must without exception of the first
Minute to be free. If contract terms of, for example Telephone providers, the gym or subscription after the minimum term of two years, automatically the same again to a

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

181

Time for the green transformation

Consumer protection for all

whole year may be extended, is the rip-off at the consumer 'and harm free competition. We will ensure that contracts after the minimum term terminated at short notice
are, and thus prevent such subscription traps.
Dispo-usury we want to avoid by an interest rate cap and
unscrupulous debt collection and Abmahndiensten by stricter rules
and controls spoil the deal.
Products that break down shortly after the end of the warranty period and
can hardly be repaired, are a nuisance and waste
valuable resources. We stand for longer and better warranty rights. The burden of proving a lack should also
remain with the seller after the first few months.
Who buys online, must not be treated less favorably than offline. Therefore, we will develop a distinctive model for the protection of consumers in the digital society and strengthen the area
the intangible assets, the consumer rights, by their
Resold legally absichern.Bei Internet shops
we want to leave Wild West methods and the consumer data
better protection. Among other things consumer organizations
given the possibility that compliance with safety and protection
personal data on the Internet trading judicially enforce.

3. energy at fair prices
We are fighting for fair energy prices - against price gouging by monopolies and market manipulation. Therefore, we want more competition, greater price transparency and less power for the large
Electricity and oil companies. Fair prices, no dumping prices,
are our goal.
Faire electricity prices require a more equitable funding of
Energy revolution. We intend to finance the energy transition solidarity, degrade exuberant industrial privileges and ensure
that the current customers and by the lower prices on the
Electricity exchange benefit. Faire gas prices will be only through more
Competition in the gas market and overcoming the bond
Adjust the gas price to the oil price. And to meet to rip off at filling stations and refineries, is an aggressive approach by the

182

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Antitrust necessary. In all this we know: The best precaution against rising energy prices are energy saving and energy efficiency. More we have in the chapter "100% secure energy"
described.

4. strengthen consumer rights

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens Consumer protection for all

The health and safety of consumers must have priority over economic interests. That is why we want to take action against plasticizers and heavy metals in children's toys and child-related products. The health consequences of this and
other toxic substances for consumers
We will continue to investigate and take the necessary precautions. As long as their safety is not unique
is found, foods or cosmetics containing nanoparticles may not come on the market. Toxic colors and bleaches
must finally be history in textiles. The labeling of animal-free products, we want to strengthen.
Passengers should be entitled to compensation for delays already from 30 minutes. Travelers must in case of conflict
Tour operators can meet as equals. We demand
Therefore an independent and free dispute resolution service that
is privately financed and with its decentralized correspondents all
Traveller educates young people on their rights and, where appropriate, helps dispute
mutually agreed solution.
For patients' rights need to be strengthened at medical errors and additional services.
More effective regulation of financial markets is also from the perspective
consumer protection centrally. For investments and retirement we want to ensure independent advice, free of commission interests. Has the right to a private bank account
of course. Indebtedness we want to precautionary financial checks and strengthen the financial literacy of young
People prevention and the deleveraging process for all on
shorten three years. The social debt needs to be strengthened
be to allow over-indebted consumers an economic reboot.

183

Time for the green transformation

5. Healthy Eating Gmo

Consumer protection for all

Good food combines health and enjoyment. We want safe
Foods, free of pesticides, genetic engineering, and antibiotics. That
requires a precautionary policy, and effective checks by the
Farm to the supermarket shelf. That is why we need to strengthen the control of foodstuffs.
What's food in it, must be marked easily understood. Pictures of happy cows on products from
Factory farming are conscious deception and blatant consumer deception. We want that animal husbandry conditions,
Manufacturing conditions, ingredients and origin of food are clear and easy recognizable. The identification of
Holding conditions of hens is also on eggs in processed
Products be extended. If animal products are contained in products, or have been used in the manufacture,
should be indicated.
On processed, composite foodstuffs to the
Levels of fat, sugar and salt are visualized by a catchy traffic light labeling in green-yellow-red. Then already
each and every second person suffers from malnutrition or obesity.
Grubby kitchens and patterns businesses we want to make distinguishable by a hygiene barometer or Smiley.
Kitas and schools must provide more knowledge about healthy and balanced diet - practically by a common meal a day, in their preparation, the children as possible
be involved. For embossed in childhood eating patterns often last a lifetime. And we want a federal program to nationwide expansion of day care and healthy
Promote school meals in Germany. Here are regional and ecological care structures be promoted in public catering. We want a biobased
of at least 20% in the mass caterers. At Children
Targeted Marketing and the misnomer in so-called
Children foods we want to prevent.
Genetic engineering in food we reject, on the table as
in the field. Therein we know ourselves with the vast majority of
Consumers and farmers agree. Makes agricultural genetic engineering

184

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Consumer protection for all

our diet depends on a small number of large corporations and plant varieties. You risk to the environment, the GMO-free agriculture and organic farming.
Is why we are committed to better protect non-GM food production in Germany and the authorization
strict to regulate the cultivation of genetically modified plants in Europe. We want to intensify the Genetic Engineering Act and at EU level
enforce that labeling gap for meat, eggs, milk
or cheese is closed, were fed genetically modified maize or soya whose production. We oppose attempts to soften the zero tolerance of illegal GM ingredients or
to undermine the labeling requirements.
Regional diversity and local food cultures have received
remain. We do not want harmonization and reduction to
one or two vegetables or fruit. There are around in Germany
2,000 different varieties of apples, but the grocery store can be found in
usually always the same four varieties. We therefore strengthen
regional and seasonal cuisine. This not only tastes good, but
is also better for the environment and climate.
Conscious consumption and waste do not mix. Our goal is to halve food waste by 2020th
For a whole series of measures is needed, which also
Trade and Industry takes the duty.

185

Time for the green transformation

Who chooses GREEN ...
• strengthens the rights of consumers.
• tells the rip-offs on the fight.
• right to fair energy prices.
• wants the purchase to know exactly what's in it, and organic and
Strengthen Fairtrade.
• chooses healthy foods without pesticides, genetic engineering and
Antibiotics.

Consumer protection for all

Key projects
End rip off - financial markets
regulate consumer-friendly
Financial transactions too many are ripped off. Therefore must
we comprehensively strengthen consumer protection - by the independent Financial Market Guardian, about the legal right to own
Checking account up to protect against fraudulent investment schemes.
We need a unified and powerful with Financial
Consumer protection as a core task, which is supplemented by a financial guardian under the umbrella of the consumer centers. The
Rip with dispatchers and overdraft interest, we want with a
flexible, based on a prime rate cap prevent. To overcome commission driven negligent advice, we want to establish the consulting fee on an equal footing in the market and maximum
Establish transparency of all commissions. We want to make the financial markets green, so we are calling reliable seal of approval
for sustainable investments and environmental and ethical standards in government-sponsored retirement plans. Since in the private

186

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

th retirement too much money in the pockets of intermediaries and
Providers lands, we need a consumer policy restart
Riester and other products of private pension plans.

Knowing what's inside - improve consumer information

Consumer protection for all

Consumers have the right to know what
there is in products and services. Therefore, we simply want to introduce understandable markings: For example,
Traffic light labeling on foodstuffs hygiene barometer
or "Smiley" for restaurants and a seal of approval for sustainable investments. But the information rights against
Authorities and companies need to be improved. Because with
each new food scandal shows that the existing information obligations of public authorities and businesses are not sufficient. That is why we are gaps in the Consumer Information Act
close and the information duties on other products
Expand Services.

No genetic engineering on our plates -
Kennzeichnungsp fl improve ot
The majority of Germans reject genetic engineering in food from yet
lands it every day on our plates. The meat that we eat,
is also so cheap because the animals with GM soya or GM maize
be fed. But the GM feed does not have to be labeled. We are committed to ensuring that this labeling loophole is finally closed in the EU legislation. On
national level has the quality mark "without genetic engineering" be made known as soon as possible by an aggressive information campaign. So the consumers can decide whether they
Genetic engineering in food want. And they can decide whether they want to continue to support the disastrous monocultures in South America and the growing dependence of farmers on a few chemical companies.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

187

Time for the green transformation

L. Free and Independent Power
Media for all
How do we increase transparency and participation in
create a digital society

Free and independent media network for all

The digital transformation characterizes social structures and influenced cultural norms and values. He changed our everyday lives, our schools and universities, our company culture and
Media, politics, and more. We want to make this digital transformation of our society so that they people the
uses and that equal participation and self-determination in
Focus. We are striving for a variety of legal offers, the
ensure appropriate remuneration for creators and
Users participation in and access to cultural works opened. All the more frustrating it is, how little the Merkel coalition
interested in our digital future. Network policy is a key
Future theme and can be responsibly processed only as a cross-cutting issue. The mediation of competencies to
reasonable and self-determined handling of these new
Opportunities, but also the knowledge of potential risks must
Be part of lifelong learning. To initiate a change, we want to establish a better co-ordination within the federal government.
The expectations and tasks that lie ahead are great!
It is essential to safeguard the freedom of the Internet, the constitutionally
guaranteed rights of every / s individuals must respect users as creators, to strengthen the freedom of expression, privacy
to protect and access to and equal participation
to allow to the digital world.
Access to the Internet is for us part of the general interest. Too
our understanding of social participation in the 21st century belongs to the broadband Internet access via a compulsory
Universal service - as in the delivery of mail - ensure. Us
GREEN set - even on the Internet - on decentralization, openness and

188

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Free and independent media network for all

Diversity. The emergence of new monopolistic offers that the
Restrict self-determination, contradicts these values. The
Weak need to be strengthened in relation to the dominant companies.
Commercial platforms that make the works of cultural workers money required to pay an equitable remuneration.
The digital transformation of central importance in addressing
the challenges of our time, whether. by smart grids, networked mobility or Green IT To the ecological opportunities
To use the new technologies as possible, it is of
enormous importance to build trust, for example by taking into account the highest standards of data protection.
Also on the traditional media world affects the digital transformation
out. Press is no longer just printed paper, radio and television are more than radio waves and moving images. The media types are more difficult to separate, their consumption is changing
and therefore provides media companies and media representatives, the
public broadcasting, but also the policy before pressing
Issues.
Participation in the digital society requires self-determined action. The need to learn media literacy is,
for people of all generations equally known - for children
as well as for seniors.
One hundred thousand people walked in the freezing cold against the
ACTA on the streets. A #aufschrei who are the everyday sexism in our society many faces is,
Topic in all media. More and more people participate per se
Online petitions. These are examples of how more and more people the
Take advantage of the Internet to their own opinions
to form, to intervene politically and to organize. Our
Democracy is digitally alive. This we want to use to more
Transparency and participation forms, be it to create in the political, economic or administrative.
Our future is digital. We Greens they want with you and
Make you!

189

Time for the green transformation

1. economies and participate in: The future is digital

Free and independent media network for all

The expansion of broadband increased in our country. Especially in rural
Regions have, for example, companies such as freelancers
by a massive competitive disadvantage. To all the people
To enable participation in the digital transformation, we must finally
close the white spots. As the delivery of mail to the remote regions of our country is governed, we also want to
Access to a broadband connection for all people over a
Ensure universal service. This universal service must
broadband connections have widely available with a minimum of 6 Mbit / s.
This universal service, we want to make effort to deal with the
technological developments and the needs to keep pace.
Our goal is nationwide by the end of the legislature
Broadband connections in the tens of Mbit / s to provide area.
Our existing network infrastructure is reaching its limits and
is not sustainable. Therefore, the construction of a nationwide fiber-optic network remains our goal.
We want to broadband coverage beyond public as
private projects, the expansion of free use and
public Wi-Fi networks have the aim of actively
support, taking into account consumer health protection. We are seeking pragmatic ways terminal holders may enable third parties to access the Internet without paying for
to be taken in the joint liability abuse (Störerhaftung). However, the users of such networks of their rights and duties need to be aware, so that the acceptance of such offerings is not playful.
The Internet is fundamental to our goal of an inclusive society. It just opened and people with disabilities new
Opportunities for participation. We want to reach the widest possible accessibility on the Internet. This is the self-evident design criterion for public and private sector
Offers are. At the same time we would also like those
include and take into account that does not want to deal with the Internet or können.In the Internet industry caused hundreds of thousands of new jobs. We want to encourage start-ups and
support founders culture of the great potentials

190

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Free and independent media network for all

Uses digitization. The willingness to take entrepreneurial risks for good ideas and the failure of the possibility of a
to understand new opportunity, we want to strengthen. Promoting
Creative and Internet economy, we want to set up new and
the requirements of industry, in the rapid innovation cycles and short-term business decisions
the agenda, adapt appropriately. In the IT industry
are often new models of flexible, family-friendly
Working hours and employee participation exemplified belonging deprecated. More time and space flexibility but
not always synonymous with more freedom. We insist
that even under changing working conditions compliance
must be respected by social standards, fair pay and the work-life balance.
As open, free and sustainable is our society, reflects
Also in use of free and open software contrary. In the public sector, they should be a priority, if this is legally possible award. Just need software developments and
are always published for authorities with source code under a free license so that all benefit from them and they can be easily developed. Central to this strategy is the
Use of open standards and interfaces. Despite objective
Advantages of free products being in the public administration
still too often proprietary software of the given priority. Us
want the transition process to free software together with
go to employees of the administration and for understanding and
Advertise assistance.
Information technologies are rapid and permanent changes subject and without raw materials from other countries
unthinkable produce. We want to work to ensure that production, distribution, use and disposal of this equipment take place under fair and sustainable conditions. That is why we
for us a clear legal provisions, the human rights standards
as well as energy and resource efficiency make them binding,
and want the reuse of valuable raw materials so
increase far as possible.
For the energy transition, it will be in the next few years is of particular importance that the IT industry do their part for their

191

Time for the green transformation

Free and independent media network for all

Success contributes. That is why we want to promote Green IT. Among them
we understand the optimization of resource consumption during
manufacturing, operation and disposal of IT equipment and the use of new technologies with the aim of a more resource efficient economy. To meet these responsibilities,
Germany needs a strategy to promote and develop
sustainable ICT concepts. For the current amount of 52,000
Data centers in Germany are about four medium-sized coal-fired power plants needed. The energy efficiency of data centers, however, can be considerably increased. Therefore, we are committed to a
Initiative "Climate-neutral data centers in Germany" a.
Secure and reliable computer and network technologies
there is only creative, free and always inquisitive research. The detection and elimination of vulnerabilities in
Networks and software must take precedence over the integrity
or the copyright protection of information technology
Have systems. We want the legal gray area in which many
German IT security experts in university, public,
must act private sector and volunteer IT security research projects, eliminate.

2. Our responsibility for a spare power
It is necessary to secure the Internet freedom policy. It is through
Monopolies and oligopolies threatened with central services such as search engines or social networks, but also by state
Monitoring fantasies such as data retention.
The network infrastructure should be equally available to all. We do not want a 2-tier Internet and therefore the principle
of net neutrality anchored by law. So we make sure that
Data on the Internet without discrimination or preferential transfer equally - regardless of its origin, its objective,
the financial strength of their recipients or senders inside, its contents, used applications or inserted device. Injured
the neutrality of the Internet even when providers or government agencies block, filter or use Internet content
bluebirds, feed so less profitable content suddenly worse

192

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Free and independent media network for all

are accessible or politically unpopular content disappear. The
increasing fusion of infrastructure providers and content providers we see critical since it endangers the net neutrality,
limits competition and reduces usage freedoms. We are committed to ensuring that Federal Network Agency and Federal Cartel Office in
Limits of its powers to pursue potential abuses.
In addition, we want to enshrine net neutrality law.
Worldwide pile up - just in authoritarian states and dictatorships - state intervention in the Internet freedom. Exporting
Expertise, technology and software for censorship and surveillance of
Must end the Internet in these countries. Here we want a
effective export controls to make sure. Free and open access to networks has become a human right. It needs global agreements on transparent rules that permanently free the Internet
and keep it open. Civil society, politics and economy are
while at the same table to a global Code to secure the
Liberties and civil rights to come on the Internet.
Also online is being bullied, ripped off and cheated, be
Offenses committed by means of the new possibilities of the Internet. Freedom in a digital world means both protecting the
Individual and enforce its rights. This must be effective,
but also strictly done civil rights compliant. The structure of
Blocking or censorship infrastructure we stand clearly contrary has always been.
Instead, forbidden content must deleted and crimes such as
the representation of sexual abuse of children or racist
Violence calls are consistently followed.
For better enforcement is required investigating authorities,
which are fit for the digital age. In order effectively
being able to act, but also cross-border cooperation need to be strengthened. This is part of our goal, a global
Introduce Internet governance structure that takes into account all interests and stakeholders as possible.
In the area of ​​children's and youth media protection we
always advocated arrangements that also in technical terms
the network reality are adequate to protect the freedom of the Internet
and children at the center of the protective interest. The in
2010 failed amendment to the Youth Media Protection Staatsver-

193

Time for the green transformation

Free and independent media network for all

Treaty has not met these criteria. Technical means
can only supplement, but not an alternative to promote
media literacy be compulsory filter, we reject also from. We want to intensify the research on specific hazards for children and adolescents on the Internet and promote. The upcoming revision of the Youth Media Protection State Treaty
we constructively and in accordance with the conditions defined by us
accompany and reject the re-onset tendency to backroom politics.
Ad placements on websites with prohibited content we want to fight, profiting from infringements we want to stop.
Prevention is the most important measure. We want to promote self-determination through the lifetime accompanying teaching media literacy. The aim is to impart skills,
how to protect their own data, classifies content which
Rights and obligations you have, or how to be example.
can defend themselves against false allegations. We will therefore
to ensure that media literacy mediation in ErzieherInnen-, BetreuerInnen- and teacher training nationwide as
own subject area is established.

3. strengthen citizens' rights in the digital world
For over a decade we are witnessing the breakdown, the softening
and relativization of fundamental rights standards. All we need is therefore
not to demand only the preservation of citizens' rights. We GREEN
want to strengthen our citizens' rights and legally re-procure the newly created basic right to the confidentiality and integrity of information technology systems application.
Telecommunications secrecy laid down in Article 10 of the Basic Law, we want a
comprehensive communication and media use secret
develop further comprising the digital world. So may be below the
Guise of so-called cyber security is not the dismantling of
free and open Internet are promoted. Civil Rights Hostile creepy songs like data retention or
secret online searches of computers have in a free-

194

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Free and independent media network for all

s, the rule of law society no place. The massive expansion of inventory data information, which of the CDU / CSU, FDP and SPD
was promoted, we reject.
The informational self-determination and the right to public information - Freedom of Information - are for us in
Our work for a livable digital society.
Without privacy, there is no free Internet. Privacy is also
in the digital age no relic of old days. On the contrary: The effective protection and legal protection of pseudonymous and anonymous communication fulfills a key role in the private sphere
in the Internet age. Advertising on the Internet in a significant
Become finance pillar of gratuitous offerings. The
Advertising industry is ready for accurate target groups high posts
to pay, and dreams of "glass customer", whose traces are fully evaluated. Against the excessive collection of data
for customer profiling, we advocate transparent
and a fair rules. We want the power of self-determination
secure and informed citizens. By making explicit consent to the storage and processing of data for basic principle. We call for a ban on computerbezogenem
Tracking through cookies, which is not noticed by citizens.
Equally fundamental is the preventive effect, legally binding data protection through technology (privacy by design and privacy by default), and protection against unwanted profile and
automated assessment (scoring) data. This applies with respect to
the State as compared to other companies and private bodies. We therefore support a reform of European data protection law that strengthens inter alia data protection against non-EU companies and the enforcement powers for
DPAs increased. This is also the Grundrechtsund consumer protection against providers of social networks
improved. Bullying online is not a trivial offense. In terms of
protection of personal rights, we want the provider
even more remember their responsibility. Therefore, a better protection of victims must be achieved. Especially in social networks they have the legal obligation, appropriate

195

Time for the green transformation

To delete content immediately after taking note (notice and
Take down), are failing.
Each and everyone needs securitized and enforceable rights to
Tracking the path of their own data, obtain information on stored data, prevent the dissemination and encourage their permanent and immediate deletion as well as other
To enforce property rights. Our mission for democracy
in the digital age and how we want to promote digital democracy, we describe in the chapter "renew democracy".

4. Making public: a new media policy

Free and independent media network for all

The media make a significant contribution to access to information and knowledge. As before, the traditional media are
- Newspapers, radio and television - the most frequently used sources of information for many people. But are becoming increasingly important and new digital services. We sit down for a GREEN
diverse media landscape, in which everyone can participate. Us
make us strong for independent media and a high quality content.
The independence of the media is fundamental in order to state the
can control. We therefore call for a state-distant occupation of supervision at ARD, ZDF and Germany Radio and want
the composition of the broadcasting councils, the television and the Council
Customize radio Council to the changing social realities. Even when private media ownership are for
the citizens to be more transparent. The admission and
Monitoring nationwide broadcast programs and organizers
by the Commission for authorization and supervision (ZAK) has in
our eyes not proven because the federal interests have still been in the forefront. To change this, be
we opted for the establishment of a common Medienanstalt the
Insert countries. A high-quality public service
Broadcasting must play an important role also in the digital world. Because the users and users are increasingly on the Internet
Use broadcast deals that programs of public service broadcasters must also be a permanent presence there. We want

196

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Free and independent media network for all

therefore end the Depublikationspflicht of ARD and ZDF. Us
To the content instead in future freely accessible and by
make free licenses available, at a reasonable remuneration of creators. We are convinced that the public
Broadcasting reach all generations in an appropriate manner
needs, and especially in its main programs. In addition, we welcome the establishment of an independent youth radio station
specifically of ARD and ZDF.
We note with concern that the diverse landscape in newspaper
Germany is under strong economic pressure. Even if
digital media grow, are by many online offers
still funded through the print editions, which have to deal with falling advertising revenues and declining subscriber numbers. Forever
more small and local newspapers are set, editors
merged and outsourced and fired editors.
If newspapers are set, the basis for the democratic opinion-forming is diminished. The number
the free journalists has been increasing for years - at the same time
their pay getting worse. The sinking line fees have a negative impact on the time required for research and thus
the quality of reporting. We are committed to ensuring that
control and enforcement of the rules for remuneration of journalists is guaranteed in the future. The intellectual property right
for press publishers, we reject, it is on the current situation
change nothing. It carries the risk that the online available
Information and media diversity can be further limited.
Instead, we want based on scientific surveys a
Debate on foundation models and business models, supportive, indirect and targeted promotion and the role of citizen journalism abut. Is to clarify how a high-quality, but
also investigative journalism funded or promoted in future
may be, without thereby removing the publishers and operators of their responsibilities.

197

Time for the green transformation

5. strengthen creators, fair
Negotiate balance of interests

Free and independent media network for all

The Internet has revolutionized the access to cultural goods and provides
enormous opportunities for users, creators and cultural diversity, as it fast, affordable, unlimited reproduction possibilities while maintaining quality and a global
Dissemination potential offers. At the same time it represents a massive challenge to the existing copyright law. Mission Statement for our political work in this area is the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. That each and everyone has the right, in cultural life
freely to participate in the community, to enjoy the arts
and participate in scientific advancement and its benefits. Likewise, each and everyone has the right to protection
the moral and material interests that him / her as the author
adult resulting from any scientific, literary or artistic production.
We Greens want to continue to make a transparent social process to modernize and reform of copyright. The aim is a new consensus on a fair
Balance between the interests of creators, the recycler inside and the interests of users and the general public
to negotiate. For us, it comes to a copyright for the 21st century, which enjoys high acceptance, creators protects a
ensures equitable remuneration, while also strengthen users' rights and promotes innovation.
The call for warning models, one end of anonymity, the blocking of websites or internet connections, the
Content filtering, the sprawling Abmahnunwesen and a
grant compulsory retention of telecommunications data
We Greens still a clear rejection. We advocate a policy
one that sets Communication reward instead. Author and artists, we are strengthening by a reform of copyright contract law,
order fairer to participate in the proceeds of exploitation of their works.
The possibility of collective management of rights
Creators by collecting societies is a crucial tool to obtain an equitable remuneration practicable
ensure. Although not all collecting societies

198

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Free and independent media network for all

are lumped together, we want more equal
Say sure. Collecting societies must be fair, transparent and democratic, we will this
promote legally as far as possible and support initiatives
as well as the collecting societies themselves, these reform steps
to go. Members of a collecting society must take advantage of alternative licensing models such as "Creative Commons" or other
Develop business models.
Today stations are stored on different devices and reproduced. This extra profit Usages
we want to protect and digital through the strengthening of the right to
Private copying sure. This is not technically restricted
become.
Through the digital transformation blurred boundaries. In this way,
the creative use of protected content by third parties will be facilitated. The creative development of protected content is subject
in non-commercial framework is not the access of creators
and artists, we want this by an additional copyright barrier for non-commercial forms of transformative use, on the development and processing
existing or copyrighted works are aimed, protect by law. Where the area of ​​the Non-Commercial However,
will leave, the creators are appropriately remunerate. Moral rights are also in the transformation of
To preserve works.
We distinguish "non-commercial" by "commercial", as
follows: If copyrighted material on a website or platform offered directly, in a not insignificant
Measurements revenue through donations, contributions from members as
Has buyers or through advertising or links, so this
a commercial scale. We want a single point
the acquisition of rights to works for processing, interpretation,
Create and remix mashup with commercial intent and so the
simplify kinky Rights clearance. Free licenses we want
make it more attractive and fit this into the public funding with. Often the users scope and territory are
their licenses are not always clear, these have the users therefore
be notified of course. In addition to users via

199

Time for the green transformation

Free and independent media network for all

a "One-Click-licensing" in the EU for commercial licenses
Can acquire experience.
Every year hundreds of thousands of fluttering warnings because of the making available of protected songs or movies into the house, the
partially not serve the interests of creators, but the profit interests of lawyers. This Abmahnunwesen
we want to stop and sit down for a clear legal limits,
without legitimate interests of creators to unreasonably
circumcised. We want to reduce the amount in dispute clearly, quit flying jurisdiction, warnings on actions
Allow the course of trade, a reimbursement of
numerous introduce wrongly Abgemahnt. The third information in respect of private, we want to be limited to the trade.
The coming years will decide whether to prevail new business models in the digital culture market, both
secure an equitable remuneration for creators and the
ensure cultural participation of all people. Efforts to achieve this goal, we will support and actively support.
A failure of these business models is a legislative
Intervention require, on the one hand an appropriate remuneration
secures and on the other hand opposes the urge for more repression. To achieve this, we intensively discuss the introduction of a flat-rate levy on broadband Internet connections. Our
Parliamentary Group has an extensive opinion on this,
the legal and especially presented the economic feasibility, which we want to evaluate open questions in a
To clarify this approach and intend to develop this perspective. In this context we want a new
Introduce barrier for private upload at European level to
eliminate existing obstacles.
Science and research can immensely from digital
Opportunities to benefit, because knowledge grows when it is shared.
We want to remove barriers to access in the field of science copyright and are committed freely available academic publications (Open Access), a statutory right
on relevant publications for public funds
works created and for free research data (Open Data) a.

200

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

As part of public research funding to Open Access
be made a mandatory condition. We also want to
create an indispensable secondary exploitation rights.
We want to introduce a comprehensive Science barrier.
The use of published works of any kind of media should for the
non-commercial, scientific use in principle be allowed without authorization and without restrictions.

Who chooses GREEN ...
• voted for a free, safe and barrier-free Internet.
• strengthens citizens' rights.
• promoting Green IT, free software and innovative business models.
• ensures access to broadband Internet for all.

Free and independent media network for all

• right for a fair balance of interests in copyright law.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

201

Time for the green transformation

Key projects
Free and fast Internet for all
- Promote broadband expansion
The Internet freedom is not self-evident and yet
always there are regions without fast Internet access. Future
is the participation of young and old dependent on access to the Internet. Therefore, all households and businesses should promptly
a broadband connection of at least 6 Mbit / s are available. Our goal is the territorial coverage of broadband connections in the tens of Mbit / s range by the end of this legislature. So we create in rural areas a better
Open the Digital World. This universal service offer dynamic. It is financed by a company fund, as
already earmarked for other services in the Telecommunications Act
is. So we provide high-speed internet for all safe and also enshrine net neutrality law.

Free and independent media network for all

A modern and fair copyright
- Quit the Abmahnwesen
Instead of the Civil Rights enemy calls for Internet censorship,
To follow warnings or the end of anonymity, making
we in on the way to a modern and fair copyright
Dialogue with all stakeholders. An improved Urhebervertragsrecht the negotiating position of creators will be strengthened, a
achieved adequate remuneration and granted them clearer rights. The transformational use (Remix / Mashup) of copyrighted works in the defined non-commercial
Extent we will secure by a new derogation (copyright limit) in copyright. The digital private copying
is made possible and terminates the Abmahnwesen. CRMs are fair, transparent and democratic.

202

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Privacy strengthen - Retention
prevent and modernize Privacy

Free and independent media network for all

Cloud computing, smart grids, Big Data, social networks: We have a right to privacy and yet so many of us are data collected and processed in an uncontrolled manner as never before. With us
there will be no re-introduction of data retention.
Instead, we are fighting for an effective and modern data protection law in Germany and in Europe. We need to make data protection fit for the digital age and by monitoring
the state and the totally uninhibited data collecting companies push back. For this we want more accountable private
take, expand the Employee Data Protection and enforcement of data protection in cross-border data transfers
improve. These are the foundations for a time- and constitutional privacy - without anlasslose mass storages.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

203

Time for the green transformation

M. renewing democracy
How do we create transparency, create publicity,
Strengthen citizen participation and improve representation

Renew democracy

Democracy is a model of success. Political minorities can
Majorities. Our Green Party history shows it: From
Have nuclear phase through to the registered civil partnership
we effected real change in policy.
But we also see signs of crisis. In political discourse
be doubts raised as to whether democracy is ever able
to make global issues of the future such as climate change, whether they are using
their method rapid developments such as the financial and euro crisis
come to grips with. Not to be forgotten are the open enemies of
Democracy, as old and new Nazis.
But there is also a strong counter-movement and a lot of commitment to democracy and their strengthening. Many involved
be. in initiatives, associations and political parties for the common good Of the
Right to participate, on good information and transparency
grows.
The vast majority wants a new democratic culture. You want a strong democracy and recognize that we must always continue to develop democracy. We accept these people
seriously because democracy only works if people can take responsibility and want.
We know democracy needs the intervention of all. All must have a say and we all want to encourage them to participate. We want to revitalize our democracy. We therefore encourage
the local involvement and creating new opportunities for participation at the local, national and European level. That's why
We rely on being heard and hear it working. But democratic participation takes time and needs a new policy period.
We are all for the democratic participation. Both by
more direct involvement opportunities as well as through improved
and gender-equitable representation. For this we need new
Process, but also strong parliaments. Citizen participation is for

204

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

further developed us not a state but a process of participation
and all men shall be open. We do not build the social
Hurdles of our democracy, and begin to faint and
less loud voices strong. We ensure transparency and fight corruption.
Democracy creates the future. Against technocratic power claims and expertocracy we say clearly: Democratic processes are not the problem. On the contrary, more democracy and
Transparency, dialogue and participation are the solution. We rely on common reflection - so we can see the future on
make best.

1. Join the conversation are heard in decisions

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Renew democracy

Mixing is desired! Basta policy was yesterday. In the green governed states we already have a new style of government
initiated a policy of becoming Heard and Audible making.
Citizen participation has to start it early so that, where appropriate,
It can not be reversed, and are organized so that
nobody is excluded from participation process. That is why we encourage all offers to participate in the shaping of their own living environment. Alternative methods of conflict resolution such as mediation or arbitration, we want to strengthen. At the same time we want
Open remedies at an early planning stage. It is much better from the outset in planning quality, dialogue and
Participation to invest, rather than later in longstanding disputes procedure or even in extremely expensive police large-scale operations. Citizen Participation
is not only popular there, to be where dredged and built.
We Greens have repeatedly position papers, proposals and bills online for discussion before being submitted to the Bundestag. All who wanted to, could get involved so directly and have helped to optimize our designs. Such Consultations, at least via the Internet, we want even when legislative projects of the Federal Government and also provide appropriately
Fashion designing with options for offline participation. That
successful instrument of "public petition" we want as
develop a form of civil legislation. Open Re-

205

Time for the green transformation

Renew democracy

government and administrative actions must be standard. We want to strengthen the Freedom of Information constitutionally, expand
and open data strategies prevail.
Every four years, to have a choice, is not enough. We also want the
Bund allow direct democracy. You can the representative
Complement democracy well. The public mobilization to factual issues breathes new life into the political landscape. To date,
rejects in particular the CDU / CSU for a necessary
Ammendment. But we do not give up until a three popular legislation with popular initiative, referendum and
Referendum a reality. An effective protection of minorities
is self-evident for us. So are people's initiatives, which are out to restrict the rights of a minority, which
define the criteria of constitutional and European legal equality article, be inadmissible. Also fundamental rights and fundamental constitutional principles may not Referenda
be called into question. For direct democracy is the
Transparency apply: There must be clarity, from which financial sources dine referendum campaigns. As with the
Party financing, we want to limit the donation amount here. At EU level, we want to come to the pan-European referenda.

2. strengthen parliaments, open parties
Representative democracy is a guarantor for the representation of the whole of society over individual interests. Our democracy
needs a self-confident parliament with strong, independent deputies, who represent the company and the urge
powerful interests withstand.
We have successfully fought for in the Bundestag
European decisions can at an early stage in the decision, and
sit still for a strengthening of his. Parliament needs to have independent expertise, not for its decisions on
Information to be instructed by lobbyists and not
alone on government data. This requires adequate facilities for scientific services including a Justizi-

206

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

ariats. We also want the Parliament - as in the US - a
independent "budget office" in the budget process strengthen. The
Control of government action we want to effectively designing, strengthen the rights of committees of inquiry.
For democracy include parties for bundling, representation
like balancing different values ​​and interests.
Parties must be open to greater transparency and participation. We Greens do not just talk of it, but have in this
Legislature a number of initiatives for more
Transparency introduced in the Bundestag, allows participation and co-operation and act accordingly: The first party we have
the top candidates for the general election on binding
a ballot voted.

3. revitalize democracy in everyday life

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Renew democracy

Core of democracy is the political equality of all. We want
no democracy, which is designed by a few who for the necessary resources - in particular time - include and enforce their interests. We want to make the quiet and underrepresented voices heard. We therefore rely on
new, low-threshold method of public participation, in which
from the very beginning all social groups are involved on an equal footing and get the chance that their interests in the decision-making process are taken into account. Well-planned and moderated citizen participation allows the participants
and participants learn a learning process in which they know about the representation of own immediate interests, the perspectives of the other participants and understand and
thus develop an idea of ​​the common good, which is essential for the cohesion of society. Excessive accumulations of economic and financial power are contrary to
Principle of political justice and equality and thus to democracy. This must not only counteracted regulatory policy
be, but also with democratization from the inside, for example,
by expanding the participation rights of employees and Reforms in corporate law.

207

Time for the green transformation

Renew democracy

With the Internet new, digital publics have emerged.
They invite you to View, Contribute and mixing. Examples
there are many: it Be online petitions, municipal participatory budgeting, blogs or Wikipedia. They are all a little TLC
to our democracy and to bring more transparency and opportunities for participation. Editorial-journalistic and simultaneously
non-commercial services on the net, we want to meet with a modern and clear rules for information requirements and reduce formal barriers, such as the force of
Specifying a summonable address.
Democracy is not just a matter for professionals and parliaments.
You will not be learned solely in social studies, but then,
when young people in the institutions themselves can shape. We want to lower the voting age at the federal level at least 16 years. The right to vote for Supervised and homeless
must be ensured access to political activity for
all people to be barrier-free.
We want to facilitate access to the right to vote through a naturalization offensive. We strive for democratic participation
all people who live here long-term. As a next step
we want local voting rights also open up people without a German passport or Citizenship.
Given the low proportion of women in parliaments and
Local councils, we have the intention to establish a legal
To create arrangements for quota to the gender parity
to convey in the mandates. Because the democracy is gender equality.
It takes still not dominated by commercial space in
city ​​centers, open to people from all backgrounds,
as meeting places by the community center to the community college. Measures which require specific social groups
should keep public places and so they stigmatize and
or even criminalize, we reject. Target green governance
is peaceful coexistence of all people of all ages, without
certain groups are affected in their life. To
Democracy includes demonstrations and protests, sometimes
civil disobedience. We turn clearly against demonstrators by police disproportionate surveillance measures

208

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Men like blanket and event-free films, on robust appearance
intimidate or criminalization. The police need enough
Staff, good education and a modern equipment to the
Enforce right to demonstrate.

4. promote commitment

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Renew democracy

For decades, a diverse culture of commitment has arisen. Citizens' initiatives for the revitalization of neighborhoods, migrant organizations, self-organized children's stores, women's health centers to newer forms such as community foundations,
Housing projects and integration firms. Civic engagement needs more recognition, freedom and support,
also own fixed locations and facilities. We want the many
Strengthen municipalities incurred volunteer centers and institutions for promoting volunteering. Our approach also aims to include the excluded and to give them a voice.
Voluntary services are a special form of civic
Engagements. Has your character as a learning and service orientation
remain. But you can not substitute for the absence end
its government benefits. We want to create a legal framework in voluntary services Status Act to ensure that the voluntary services in civic orientation and organization
be further developed. A wide variety of application possibilities and the sponsorship of smaller organizations must be allowed. It is also important that volunteers are actively involved in the design and development of projects. We want,
that all young people get the chance, in an important phase of life social, ecological and cultural skills in a
To develop youth voluntary service.
We want the involvement of children and adolescents in
promote democratic structures. The sooner democratic procedures be effective even experienced, the greater
is the acceptance of democracy. In this case, it is necessary to children
and young people from the scope of participation as far as possible
to let himself make, and confidence in their area of ​​responsibility

209

Time for the green transformation

awareness lay. We want to preserve the diverse work of youth associations, voluntary organizations and free initiatives and
ensure their funding despite a difficult budgetary situation.

5. Freedom of information and transparency
consistently expand

Renew democracy

Access to public information is a fundamental right that we would like to enshrine in the constitution. Information government bodies include the citizens and not the
Administrations. More transparency strengthens the involvement of citizens at all levels of governance. These
Move away from the secrecy is a big step towards
more democracy and a reform of public administrations.
We want the - largely of Alliance '90 / The Greens
2006 enforced - Freedom of Information Act by the Federal to expand into a comprehensive transparency law. The exuberant
Catalogue of the exemptions is thoroughly slim down. Trade and business secrets and copyright must not
longer be the instrument for the prevention of greater transparency.
The right to access to information is of course not
boundless. So on must be guaranteed comprehensive data protection. Exceptions to the principle of freedom of information must
but are well founded.
Information is to be published not only on request. So include contracts of the public sector into the net and not
in the safe. Public authorities should - proactively - their information, eg Documents, analyzes, reports, surveys
make or statistics from itself as an open data freely available
(Open Data). For that we want an actually functioning and
Advanced nationwide Internet portal in which data from the federal government,
States and municipalities are published.
Also, the Bundestag must significantly improve its Open Data offer. A sustainable Open Data concept has technical
guarantee and legal openness of information. On the
technical side is especially the machine-readability of data
centrally. Legal openness means that any information

210

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Renew democracy

can continue to use without further approval. This aim
we complete, timely, non-discriminatory and accessible
Publication of raw data. The Open Data-commitments
the authorities we want in a Freedom of Information Act 2.0
anchor.
Free access to data, we understand as a driver of
Knowledge-based society. Experience from other countries show,
that the extensive, open and free provision of data
can give the public sector a new economic impetus:
Through further processing, refining and retransmission can openly provided data new applications, products,
Services and business models. Also for the
Education and science carries the desired transparency
and accessibility of data enormous potential for innovation. For all
government publications, even those who call on parliaments
We use free of data formats and the appropriate selection of operating licenses for private as for commercial use. Open government and administrative actions must
Standard are. Transparency also means light into the darkness of
To bring the Federal Security. There secret arms export decisions are made. Its decisions are promptly
reasoned and published.
Transparency is also the best prevention against felt. Federal, provincial and municipal awarded annually contracts worth several hundred billion euros. Thus not one cent of it to dubious
Company goes, we need a nationwide registry for corruption
Economic criminal have become conspicuous companies. Thus, the
receive fair competition in favor of honest companies. Corruption within the Group, scandals in factory farms or maladministration in the nursing home often only come through there employees
to light. This so-called whistleblowers frequently threaten
Reprisals until terminated. We therefore want to legally
effective protection.
The organization and articulation of interests is a core component of a pluralistic society. But many people
doubt that it still depends on her voice when
In the back taking lobbies with large money more and more influence on legislation. A mandatory register of lobbyists should therefore

211

Time for the green transformation

make her transparent, who with how much money influence on a law
has taken. We want a waiting period for withdrawing Government members and management staff in ministries, while the
no lobbying on the same field may be exercised.
The involvement of lobbyists in government departments, we want to put an end to.
We want more transparency and stricter rules for party financing. Our Parliamentary Group has submitted a transparency law for this purpose. The other parties walls. We leave the
Fight not easy for the integrity of the political institutions.
Companies make a request for approval of arms exports will need to demonstrate in the application procedure, whether and in
what amount they in the past five years, donations
Parties and elected representatives have done.
We want to improve the transparency rules about perquisites of MPs and MPs bribery consistently
criminalize. Then Germany can finally ratify the UN Convention against Corruption, as the 160 States already
have done. That black and yellow refuses so far, is embarrassing
for our country.

Renew democracy

6. Determined against right-wing, racism
Procedure and group-focused enmity
Old and new Nazis are many places already deeply rooted, they have
many places "fear areas" created by their appearance, in which
Very real human experience intimidation and harassment when
they fit into the misanthropic grid of Nazis or defend themselves against it actively resisted. But in some regions, there is a
far too uncritical dealing with them in the municipal councils. This is due to the fact that group-related
Misanthropy, racism, anti-Semitism, anti-Gypsyism, anti-Muslim racism, transphobic and homophobic attitudes, sexism and devaluation of homeless, long-term unemployed and
People with disabilities, not only on the right side, but
are also found in the middle of society. At the same time there
it is often a gratifying civil society opposition. Where import

212

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Renew democracy

mer citizens committed against Nazis, through education and
Advisory work, through peaceful demonstrations and blockades of Nazi rallies, they have the full support of Alliance 90 /
THE GREEN. Your commitment to democracy deserves government support and recognition instead of suspicion and repression.
That is why we are the discriminatory "extremism clause"
the Federal Minister Schröder abolish that precisely represents democracy initiatives under general suspicion. We want the
Association for the promotion of democracy and the fight against right-wing extremism and other forms of group-focused enmity permanently provides 50 million euros annually. Democracy promotion is a permanent task. Therefore, we want to cooperate with the
Countries and civil society to develop a new funding structure whereby programs that have been evaluated repeatedly positive in recent years, long-term planning perspective
obtain. For governmental institutions and associations must provide assistance and offers for legal advice on how to counteract the right activities and hiking, also in
Terms of real estate purchases by right-wing extremists. Basically,
must be offered gender-sensitive all measures against right.
The State must right-wing extremism, everyday and institutionally
combat racism anchored with all legal means. Security agencies must just after their incredible
Failure in detecting the NSU murders to look to the right
sharpen and to the broad knowledge of civil society initiatives
better recognize and include in their analyzes. Still not a
fully elucidated, the assassination of the Munich Oktoberfest
on September 26, 1980. We want the background of this
heaviest attack in the history of the Federal Republic finally
and be fully investigated. Our ideas for urgent
necessary restructuring of the German security architecture we describe in the chapter "strengthen civil rights". The structures of
extreme right must also be considered more from a gender point of view. Suitable dropout programs we want
strengthen. Especially women who want to leave the Nazi scene, need for themselves and their children targeted offers. Furthermore

213

Time for the green transformation

Renew democracy

must especially police and judiciary sufficient for this topic
be sensitized. Although it is not a panacea, and only one
May be block in the fight against the right, we have interest in a successful closure case against the NPD of the Bundesrat.
The NPD is unconstitutional, inhuman and
right party, which in many regions closely with violent
Groupings such as outdoor fellowships and autonomous nationalists collaborates. A ban on the NPD would financial
and organizational structures of extreme right-wing scene smashed to a considerable extent.
Other political groups and Internet portals operate their business with the populist fomenting fears of "foreign infiltration" with Islamophobia, anti-Semitism, social Darwinism
Theses, transphobia, homophobia or defamation of alternative youth cultures. New rights initiatives try particularly in
Internet targeted at a youthful language and an optically
addressing appealing style young people and so to promote their ideologies, their group-focused enmity and in particular its anti-Muslim racism. The supplies
Right bats an ideological justification. These gray areas between right-wing conservative and right-wing extremist ideology
we want to illuminate. The political education needs it
counteract and respond with information, education and support for democratic initiatives new right language and ways of thinking. Racism and other forms of group-related
Enmity have no place in our country.

214

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Who chooses GREEN ...
• get more rights and opportunities for participation
and commitment.
• replaced by a modern and open administration.
• showing clear edge against corruption.
• agrees in future often from: with popular initiatives, referendums and plebiscites.
• strengthens the fight against right-wing extremism and group-focused enmity and supporting victims
right-wing violence.

Key projects

Renew democracy

Promote democratic participation
through more participation
We want to introduce a new planning law for Large Scale Infrastructure. In these processes have citizens,
but also organizations the opportunity to obtain comprehensive information
and to participate. We are committed to transparency and public participation at each stage of planning and decision-making procedures, especially in multi-year planning processes. The democratic participation must be on participation in planning process
go out. Citizens must not only for large projects have the opportunity to vote directly. We fight for
to introduce the political majority to amend the Basic Law popular initiatives, referendums and plebiscites and
so to strengthen democracy.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

215

Time for the green transformation

Right-wing decided to confront - Projects
promote systematically against right

Renew democracy

Intolerance, anti-Semitism, Islamophobia, anti-Gypsyism, racism, transphobia and homophobia are unfortunately all too often in everyday life
Germany. We are facing opposed decided. With our offensive for Democracy against right we do our utmost,
threatened by right-wing extremists cities and regions to protect our democracy. The responsibility for this task for society to federal, state and local authorities and the
Civil society are jointly. Implementation of the general government task must be carried out with the participation of civil society.
We do not build the promotion of civil society projects
and a democratic everyday culture, because democracy promotion is an ongoing task and must have a future solid financial basis. The federal government must assume its responsibilities. He needs at least 50 million euros per year for the continuous
Provide support for measures and structures for democracy and against group-focused enmity available.
We also want to do away with the unspeakable extremism clause.
So we are the right-wing extremism as decidedly oppose such populist attitudes and group focused enmity in the society as a whole.

Fight corruption with transparency -
Expand Freedom of Information Act
Slush funds, kickbacks and Politfilz are a problem for
the democracy. Individual benefit so at the expense of society.
We provide more clarity with a corruption index for economic criminal become conspicuous companies. With a compulsory register of lobbyists, we want to make transparent who
with how much money has an impact. We want to limit the scope of the upcoming party law reform donations opportunity to individuals with an annual ceiling. For
withdrawing Government members and management staff in ministries we want a grace period during which no lobbying

216

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Renew democracy

must be exercised on the same field. The transparency rules
we want to improve and make MPs bribery consistently criminalized across Additional Incomes of Members.
More transparency also gives the development of the existing freedom of information laws to a Freedom of Information Act 2.0, which allows data in the future proactively available
provided (Open Data). So we increase the transparency of political decisions and enable participation.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

217

Time for the green transformation

N. strengthen civil rights
How do we enhance freedom, security rule of law
make and overcome discrimination

Strengthen citizens' rights

More and more companies collect comprehensive data, create
Profiles from us and resell the information. The safety authorities should be given more intrusive and burdensome powers
Spy computer. A PNR agreements with the EU
the US forces us to travel to the disclosure of extensive data.
With the citizens' rights, it is not the best.
Security means in a free society, but securing the
Freedom. Freedom is a prerequisite for full participation in society.
To enable this, is the object of a constitutional state. We want
Combating terrorism and crime, without the liberties
abandon. Instead, be at an anti-Nazi demonstration in Dresden one million mobile data completely uninvolved citizens
queried and otherwise be public authorities inform
us - in banks, Internet companies and telecommunications providers.
We are sorry this permanent transgression. Each and
each has a right to a life free of discrimination, without the blockades by prejudice, sexism and racism. We note that
there many citizens feel the same way.
We are committed to an open and inclusive society, to the
everyone can participate. These include the recognition of diversity,
diverse lifestyles and identities. It is not acceptable,
For example, when young people, despite equal qualifications
have significantly poorer chances for an interview
to be invited or successful to find an apartment for rent,
If you have a (supposedly) non-German-sounding surname
carry. But we see that there are many goes like this.
We ensure that people meddle freely
can - to without fear or discrimination have disadvantages. And we do not take out that people continue

218

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

remain excluded from democratic rights, although they
a long time living here.
We want to create a future in which not everything about
Submitted us of anybody, in which we can move freely without being observed everywhere, and in the freedom of
instead of fear prevails.

1. Set security at the service of freedom

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Strengthen citizens' rights

A free society needs citizens who are free from
Fear of crime, but also free from fear of surveillance
by the state. No one can guarantee absolute safety
- Not at the expense or job freedom. Task
the policy is to use the resources of the rule of law for the widest possible socially defensible measure to ensure safety, to protect fundamental rights and effectively mitigate threats, without restricting the freedom to such an extent that they a
empty empty words degenerates. Believers are equally protected from insult and incitement as other people. That's why
should be eliminated without replacement § 166 of the Criminal Code. Security is at the service of
Freedom and not vice versa. Intervention powers of the security authorities and surveillance measures are not themselves become a threat to freedom. Mandatory anlasslose
Mass retention of telecommunications data would be a massive invasion of fundamental rights, also still ineffective. That's why
we will do everything in our power to prevent the reintroduction of void by the Federal Constitutional Court retention. We do not want a general suspicion
against innocent but targeted investigative work. Of course, the same applies the presumption of innocence for third country nationals. Therefore must apply to them the same level of data protection. It
comes to the core area of ​​private life.
The secret online searches, we reject. Event Independent monitoring and control measures are in terms of the constitutional discrimination and excessive prohibitions highly questionable and therefore to an absolute minimum
reduce. The dragnet along the train routes and near

219

Time for the green transformation

Strengthen citizens' rights

the Schengen external borders, we want to abolish. Want The ever escalating video surveillance of public space
we push back. Citizens need in a public register can see where this takes place. In addition, the Data Protection Inspectorate in monitoring government and private video surveillance must be extended. For infringements of rules
the Federal Data Protection Act for video surveillance in public
We want to introduce a penalty provision space. The use of
Drones from authorities we want to regulate strictly, both
sit in safety issues as well as data protection, and the
Use of drones by the police for surveillance or video surveillance from public places or of demonstrations
from.
Drones are increasingly used by non-governmental bodies
used both by universities for research purposes, as
even by companies or individuals. We call for a general mandatory labeling of drones and clear rules
liability, security, data protection and utilization in
public airspace.
Counter security threats, whether by neo-Nazis, by
Terrorism or crime authorities have sufficient
be equipped and armed. The prevention of such crimes but it works best by classic solid police work.
A federal organization acting in the rule of law awareness and efficiently organized police is a guarantee for the security and protection
the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens. It is worth
they provide adequate equipment, training and remuneration. It
does not need constant new security laws in stock. We want
safety laws enacted after 2001 scientifically and
independently evaluate and change the laws on the basis of evaluation findings in favor of a genuine protection of fundamental rights. The
Federal Government has the opportunity for the future viability
the security architecture through their half-hearted Commission a
Disservice. We are concerned that civil rights not only
to defend. We want to strengthen it. That is why we want to tightening and widening the anti-terrorism legislation since 2005
withdraw. Preventive approaches to combating terrorism
we want to strengthen. The spread of misanthropic over-

220

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Strengthen citizens' rights

beliefs such as Islamophobia, racism and antisemitism are the breeding ground for the development of Islamist
and right-wing terrorists. The radicalization of individuals
and the formation of terrorist groups we have to counteract. That is why we want a better future and solid democracy promotion and more and better coordinated by dropout and
Create deradicalisation programs.
Fight against crime is a matter for the police, not the military.
The deployment of the Bundeswehr inside we reject. Actual vulnerabilities, we want to consistently include, for example
by a sharper weapons law. We want a society
Life, in which the principle applies: Public and private spaces
Apartments are weapons free. Ready to use functional sharp
Firearms we want only in compelling circumstances
Allow (eg police officers) in private households. We sit
us for a ban on large-caliber handguns as sporting guns
and the limitation of arms and ammunition possession a. Also
for high standards in the airfreight control we enter. Here
Do not skimp on the safety of passengers and crews.
About a decade was the right-wing terror group
"NSU" murder undetected, commit bombings and banks
rob. This has given us all deeply shaken; many people
lost confidence in the German security authorities. Police, judiciary and intelligence agencies were apparently unable,
these Nazi terror to prevent, and were often on the right
Eye blind. Those of us GREEN initiated committees of inquiry have brought this massive failure of the police and secret to light. We need a broad discussion
about the security architecture. For the whole secret nature
there must be a clear break and a comprehensive structural and
give human restart and a realignment of responsibilities.
Intelligence will in future carry out tasks,
which can not be in other ways, ie through public and parliamentary institutions more controllable, provided.
The MAD is to be resolved.

221

Time for the green transformation

Strengthen citizens' rights

Constitutional protection is a task of the whole society. The
Observation and analysis of democracy and human enemy
Efforts by means of public resources should in future an independent "Institute for Democracy Analysis and inhumane aspirations" afford by scientific means. The
Educational and preventive work it is important to strengthen overall and
civil society organizations working against all forms
committed by opposition to democracy, violence and contempt for human beings, to support financially better. Moreover want
we NGOs who are engaged against right and group-focused enmity, as well as the scientific
Promote democracy research at universities intensified. The
Federal Agency for Civic Education can with an improved
Features a valuable contribution to promoting democracy
afford. The Federal Office for the Protection of the Constitution in its current
Form belongs contrast dissolved. We need an institutional
Reestablishment. A new "domestic intelligence" with clearly delimited intelligence powers, new, reduced
Personal staff and other self-image should be limited next to the counterintelligence to educating violent aspirations. Federal and state authorities have thereby better
coordinate. We Greens are committed to a comprehensive task criticism intelligence agents. In particular, the use of
Undercover agents has become a weak point and problematic in the work
Protection of the Constitution proved. It can not be that enlisted with public money convinced right-wing extremists under the protection of OPCs in the sense of its ideology
act or even commit serious crimes. The Run paid
V-people always carries unacceptable constitutional risks faced by an only limited insight. That is why we also occur at the expense of a possibly impaired
Gaining knowledge for a conscious renunciation of the leadership
of a undercover agents.
But also in the police and the judiciary needs to change a lot. It
needs more diversity and interculturalism throughout the federal administration as well as the integration of diversity competence in education and
Training to police officers, prosecutors and judges
to convey more sensitivity. We are binding Zielvorga-

222

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Strengthen citizens' rights

ben set to increase the proportion of employees with an immigrant background and measures for intercultural opening.
We are especially employees with superior and
Take leadership roles in the duty. Otherwise, we are the
not encounter institutional racism and sexism permanently
be able.
Furthermore, it has a strict principle of separation between the police and
Intelligence services exist. Duties and powers should not
are mixed. The police are responsible for the security
and law enforcement, domestic reconnaissance observed and documented violent efforts in advance of specific hazards
or offenses. The necessary exchange of information between
Public services and the police must be strictly regulated by law and
be effectively controlled. Requirements and limitations of organized joint work must be formulated so by law,
that a permanent staffing, structural and informational
Exclude mixing of police and intelligence services
becomes.
The establishment of the Joint Extremism and Terror Response Centre (GETZ) in November 2012 was carried out blindly, without
thorough error analysis and without adequate participation of
Countries. Alignment et al appears against "left-wing extremism", "foreigners Extremism", espionage and proliferation absence
terrorist structures downright bizarre in these areas. Us
see no need for it and want to undergo the GETZ a critical examination. More defense centers and shared files
We reject.
We are committed to more transparency a: strong information rights
the monitoring of those concerned towards intelligence services
and other security agencies, as well as an efficient control.
The intelligence services generally lack of effective external and public control. We are the secret services
take the secret to Parliament and, for example,
by better equipment of MPs and public
Meetings of the supervisory bodies to create more transparency. By
Laws we want to lay down the conditions and controls explicitly named intelligence powers precisely. The
Parliament near G10-Commission should be strengthened, by more than

223

Time for the green transformation

Strengthen citizens' rights

so far to participate in the assembly and follow-up of all covert investigative methods.
The infiltration of social structures through
corrupting efforts against organized crime must
be directly challenged. In the area of ​​economic crime annually produced billion-dollar losses for the Company.
The police have an important social function. she can
fulfill their challenging tasks only with well trained and motivated police officers. We want a dialogue-oriented
Promote police culture. Example freedom: towards democracy include demonstrations and protest, sometimes civilian
Disobedience. We turn clearly against demonstrators
by disproportionate policing measures
as blanket and event-free films, on robust appearance or
Intimidate criminalization. Instead of martial appearance, the police should obtain reasonable and sufficient equipment
Staff assess dangerous situations properly de-escalate, and the
Ensure freedom of assembly.
But we want the rights of citizens and thereby strengthen that police officers at all times, even in large-scale operations, can be clearly identified. This can be named or even without
each security risk on an anonymous, but unresolved Number happen. Into allegations about police brutality we want for the Federal Police and in the countries
improve complaint management and ensure a neutral education.
Discrimination brings no gain in security. Identity checks and measures of security agencies, which are often located
reason alone directed against people because they are a darker
Have skin color or their non-German origin is suspected,
are discriminatory and prohibited by constitutional and international law. We want to regulate the prohibition of discriminatory ethnic profiling by law clear. Comprehensive education of those affected
have on their rights and adequate legal one
Be self-evident. Police officers have also strengthened
Received anti-discrimination training and the police must be
more want öffnen.Wir interkulturell the population and its

224

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Protect livelihoods from hazards such as natural disasters and other major emergencies. We need a strengthened civil protection in the countries and in the federal government, a
resistant Society promotes and is the state's duty to protect justice. This requires a well-equipped
and effective civil protection the federal and state governments
as well as strengthening and appreciation of voluntary work in this
Structures. In addition, the crisis management needs through regional
Incidents continue to be strengthened.

2. protect data, secure freedom

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Strengthen citizens' rights

Never before has so much to personal information collected, stored
and transmitted as it is today. Data is collected, analyzed and summarized. The strengthening of informational self-determination is a central model for a modern data protection for us. The citizens need to know who did what when and where
stores and transmits. This is true for the state as for private. The
Boundaries between public and private data processing blur when private telecommunications companies for the state
To stockpile traffic data. Another reason why we reject data retention.
Your privacy is expressly incorporated into the Basic Law, the data protection law has to be completely redesigned. Even private companies have to protect their clients' data as it is today
already their business secrets. Personal data may be saved in business only with the express consent and
be passed ("opt-in" provision). Good Privacy
can be quite a business model. We want privacy
durch Technik ("privacy by design ') and data protection by default (" privacy by default "), while making for a
introduce protected seal of approval.
Eavesdropping scandals in business and cases of video surveillance
to enter show in the dressing rooms of employees: We finally need an effective Employee Data Protection. To this end,
we, unlike the Merkel coalition, already own
Proposed legislation to protect workers against spying

225

Time for the green transformation

submitted. Data are collected and used for profiling and more frequently. We want to prohibit in principle, the creditworthiness
to calculate on a residence. Because with such "Geoscoring"
are people who live in difficult social districts, discriminated against a flat rate.
We want to ensure the independence of the Federal Data Protection Commissioner, to strengthen its monitoring capacity and him
Give sanction powers against private companies, particularly in the telecommunications industry. Citizens should be
future in data abuse and jointly supported by
Associations can fight in court. Since the data streams today
More than ever, cross-border, in particular binding EU data protection rules are indispensable. Measures such as the
mass anlasslose evaluating banking and PNR data to
Fight against crime, we reject as too far-reaching interventions in
fundamental rights from.

3. strengthen the rule of law

Strengthen citizens' rights

The rule of law is carried out first of all in a strong basic and human rights protection. We want to complement the fundamental rights,
expand and adapt in order to strengthen this protection. The politic
Do not repeatedly test the limits of the Constitution. Us
want a strong rule of law and put on a strict separation of powers. This guarantees the equality before the law and the
Protect the vulnerable against economic superiority and crime. For this we need a powerful and independent judiciary. We therefore want to restrict the individual ministerial authority to issue of justice and home affairs ministries, thus concretely introduced
Investigations and proceedings not by political intervention
influences, obstructs, or may be canceled. The privatization of the justice we oppose firmly. Shortening
stages of appeal and the abolition of redress still neither lead to more equitable solutions to a relief of the judiciary. The federal government must lead by example.
All must have the certainty of being able to get right in a timely manner. In addition, we are in favor of strengthening outside

226

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Strengthen citizens' rights

judicial resolution of conflicts such as Mediation from. We apply
decided against to curtail recourse to the courts
and legal aid and legal aid limit, and support the introduction of a mediation aid.
Judicial independence is a guarantor of the rule of law. Us
advocate a stronger self-government of the judiciary and want it
allow the countries to extend the independence of the judiciary. We support the concerns of the judges in the shaft collar
and countries, a broad say in the judge setting
and to obtain transport. The state individual right to issue instructions
the policy towards the prosecution, we want to abolish,
because it contradicts the equality of all before the law. For the
Election of judges to federal courts such as the Federal Constitutional Court, we want to enforce more transparency, as well as gender equality.
Justice as well as police work transnationally ever closer together, particularly in the EU. A further expansion of cooperation
may only be operated if it goes hand in hand with mandatory high standards for legal and rule of law in the EU, for example,
by enshrining binding and strong rights of defendants and defense lawyers and transnational legal.
This includes uniform legal bases and procedural standards, thus transnational police operations and thereby taken
Measures are always traceable and verifiable.
Criminal law is not the drug of choice to solve social problems, but a last resort of government action,
which always requires special justification. A liberal state of law must not citizens with the means of criminal law against a
possible self-harm "protect". The prosecution in the
Drug policy has failed, so we rely on the regulation
all drugs. We want to reform the system of sanctions. So must
about the use of public transport without a ticket not
be longer a criminal offense. In the enforcement of sentences
we rely on intelligent alternatives to imprisonment, such as community service and the development of alternative dispute resolution. On
modern corporate criminal law, the limits of liability
and attribution respects, we consider necessary. The victim assistance
is financially secure. We want victims of miscarriages of justice

227

Time for the green transformation

Strengthen citizens' rights

better help and compensation for imposed unjustly imprisonment
significantly increasing. Need for young people and adolescents
we reformed the Juvenile Court Act, which strictly respects the primacy of the education of punishment. Beyond the typical youth
Delinquency are opportunities and prospects, precarious family situations, education and poverty experience of violence usually
Cause repeated and serious youth crime. Preventively counteract these social and human risks, is just
also in the context of the juvenile court process object of Youth Services. It takes a strategy that such risk factors in the look
takes. The outpatient social education measures of Youth Services require a significant strengthening, so that the traditional
punitive, particularly custodial sanctions finally
actually the last resort be.
For drugs such as cannabis we want, taking into account
enabling the protection of minors a legal release form on licensed shops and taxing them. As a first step,
we want their own use and private cultivation of drugs such as
Cannabis decriminalization. Also, the medical use of and research on drugs must not be hindered longer.
The unequal treatment of cannabis and alcohol by the drivers license law should be ended. Cannabis offenses unrelated to road transport may not unsolicited and
are transmitted to the driving license office without the consent of those concerned.

4. Non-discriminatory participation permit
In an open society nobody will as sex,
ethnic or racial grounds, on grounds of religion
or belief, sexual orientation, age or discriminated against on grounds of disability. It enables and secures
simultaneously to all members of the individual's perception of
Liberties and civil rights. We want in Germany and Europe
Fighting discrimination and blocked by the black-yellow government fifth of EU anti-discrimination directive
bring forward. A structural and financial strengthening of anti-discrimination

228

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Strengthen citizens' rights

kriminierungsstelle the federal government and stronger rights for facilities such as Disability Officer to assist at the national level,
Tackle discrimination. The "General Equal Treatment Act", we want to make it more effective, strengthen the legal protection for victims and, in particular against structural discrimination
a right of collective action provide. How do we want to regulate the labor law for employees in ecclesiastical institutions, we describe
in the chapter "partaking of good work."
Even where state institutions discriminate itself, we will provide effective legal protection. It can not be,
that it is easier to discriminatory against a landlord
defend as against a discriminatory officials. State and civil society must be against all forms of discrimination
contact. Group Focused Enmity concerns us all,
because it endangers our democracy. Whether the land registry, customs or
Foreigners' Registration Office: Good institutions are characterized,
that they reflect the diversity of society. We want diversity and intercultural opening targeted administrative and judicial capacity
promote. An important goal of inclusive politics is the religious and ideological equality of all people. While so far
especially the Christian churches the status of a corporation under
have public law, other communities are legally organized association. Green politics is an open-ended ways
looking to eliminate this legal inequality.
Alliance '90 / The Greens are committed to open the military chaplaincy in the armed forces. In addition, it must be ensured that the Force sufficiently by psychologists
is supervised.

5. eliminate barriers - the self-determination
strengthening of persons with disabilities
We want comprehensive accessibility in all areas of life.
We understand accessibility as a comprehensive access and
Usage possibilities for mobility-impaired, visually impaired
or blind, hard of hearing or deaf people and those with
Learning difficulties. Visual and audible usability or

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

229

Time for the green transformation

Strengthen citizens' rights

Use simple language are for us just as important as a stepless and tactile guiding paths. Cultural, sporting and artistic performances are equally accessible to make such educational programs at all levels. So far, the wishes and
Voting rights of people with disabilities restricted, because
these options are not met.
By improving the legal framework, the financing and funding opportunities as well as raising awareness
we want to achieve more accessibility. The compensation disability handicaps is a prerequisite for self-determined participation. This guarantee individual and gender-sensitive support services people with disabilities a
independent living and community participation. To
We also call for a budget for work on which all relevant
Achievers - carrier integration assistance, the integration office, the employment agencies and job centers - participate. Especially
the ambulatory aids, personal assistance and personal
Budget and the professional worker has are important
individual support services that are to be further expanded and strengthened. That is why we will solve the services to support people with disabilities from social assistance
and converted into a participatory Benefits Act. This has the
Disability term from the UN CRPD to
Placed reason and the respective need to be determined individually.
Support services are no longer on institutions but on the needs of those to be oriented that they need, and asset and are granted irrespective of income.
Otherwise would have those who are affected by barriers, even for
correct stand. People with disabilities are
have the choice between different types of lodging. they may
are no longer referred to the fact that due to the cost of title only in the dorm accommodation is possible. That's why
we want the power law for people with disabilities
Emphasize cost subject to the social assistance law, expand outpatient support services, and actively promote the development of independent living arrangements.
The right to inclusion must involve all. Even people
with an intense need for support to self-determination

230

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

can participate. The community is included to each other on changes in the attitude of people who make the coexistence of people with and without disabilities to normalcy. Therefore, the inclusion issue has mainstreamed
In the covenant, in the countries as well as in the municipalities and under
Consideration of the "Disability mainstreaming" at a fixed
Part of the strategies of sustainable development.
Funding the development of inclusive community
can not and must not be alone task and duty performance of municipalities. We want a shared responsibility of government institutions at the federal, state and local.

6. Human nations - with integration and inclusion

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Strengthen citizens' rights

We want our integration policies through a policy of inclusion
. complete For the children, grandchildren and great grandchildren of the first immigrant generation must not be "integrated". They stand
not outside of our company, but includes right from the start
to do so. Integration can not with a pointing finger of
be prescribed above. We Greens want to develop integration and inclusion policies in cooperation with civil society, so that
it can be implemented independently and on an equal footing. It
need real equality of opportunity in education and employment. That's why
We want the quality of integration courses and language training
improve in Kitas, German courses in Germany for all interested
open, use multilingualism as a resource and recognize foreign professional qualifications easier.
We want participation of all people living here, no matter what
Origin. We rely on a naturalization offensive, so migrants can acquire German citizenship more quickly and easily. It should not be penalized women. For
the "first generation" who has lived here for decades, there must be an easier naturalization procedures. We are acquiring
strengthening of citizenship by birth: who govern us
wants, must accept that we will introduce dual citizenship and to abolish the discriminatory option forced. Multiple nationality must be generally accepted. Cultural diversity

231

Time for the green transformation

Strengthen citizens' rights

is an asset. Also already naturalized people are the
Get right again in addition to assume their old citizenship.
In social law, for example, in the labor market promotion, migrants must be treated equally. The immigration of foreign
Spouses and registered life partners, we want to make it easier again, because German is best learned in everyday life. Which
Language test abroad as a precondition we abolish. Also
their independent right of residence, we are against the
Removing cuts the Merkel government again. The right of residence has to be modernized. People need a safe residence status as a reliable basis to be with us
settle and to have a perspective. In a globalized
World it is not acceptable and that people their German
Losing residency status if they work reasons,
staying for studying or retired for a long time abroad. Us
want to facilitate the immigration of workers in principle. All migrant workers should be able to extend and solidify their stay easier. Through a wide-ranging
and transparent points system immigration controlled so
be they consequences of the aging process of our society
mitigates and an inclusion is made possible in the labor market.
Family reunification in the Residence Act is to adapt the current EU legislation.
Turkish nationals and their family members who are in
Germany live, have due to the Association Agreement
between Turkey and the EU today Rights, that approximate to those of Union citizens. This status we want to explicitly enshrine by law, eg in residence, Beschäftigungserlaubnis- and civil service law.

7. Pick up refugees and treat humanely
War, persecution, expulsion and climate change are forcing many people to flee. Thousands die every year in
trying to reach the coasts of Europe. We want a human rights-based refugee policy and reject the derzeiti-

232

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Strengthen citizens' rights

GE isolationist policy from the external borders. We do not want 'Fortress Europe'. The Geneva Refugee Convention (GRC) and
the European Convention on Human Rights (ECHR) provide the
Based on our refugee policy. We see in practice
of FRONTEX and the EU Member States in violation of the prohibition of refoulement and a severe violation of human rights. We want to abolish the scheme,
taken after the refugees only in those EU countries
can be, where they arrived the first thing (the Dublin Convention), and sit for uniform, high standards for asylum
in all member countries. Germany has its humanitarian
Responsibilities and strongly support the host States concerned. In addition to a fair asylum system, we want a spacious receiving a fixed number of vulnerable refugees (so-called Resettlement). Us
are committed to a substantial increase in minimum annual admission quota that Germany UNHCR for disposal
provides. The rate must be adequate to the global refugee situation.
It is also our humanitarian duty, refugees from Syria
to help. For this purpose it to absorb more refugees heard them
To facilitate entry to Germany and live here Syrian
To give refugees a secure residence. Syrians,
who are invited by their relatives to Germany,
may not be refused entry. Deportations of
Syrians in other EU countries, which continue to deport to Syria, we reject. In addition to the neighboring countries of Syria,
who received more than one million refugees, our
get full support in the care of refugees.
We are committed to uniform standards of protection at a high
Level throughout Europe. Asylum seekers must not be pushed back into countries where they held a fair asylum procedure
Discrimination or social misery expected.
Particularly shameful politics is against Roma and
Ashkali. These minorities are the toughest in all Balkan countries
Discrimination. We demand the maintenance of the visa free regime for Serbia and Macedonia and we want the
Situation of Roma and the racial discrimination to which they

233

Time for the green transformation

Strengthen citizens' rights

are exposed in their countries of origin, in an appropriate manner
be taken into account in the asylum procedure. In addition, the Federal Republic needs to implement the EU Roma strategy. Germany must
in the EU for a program for the effective inclusion of Roma in
use their main countries of origin. It must help
for self-help and an independent European Controlling the
Be use of funds capitalized.
In Germany, subject to protection seekers and refugees drastic restrictions of freedom of movement, Ausbildungsund work bans and discriminatory socio-legal performance limitations. With several high-profile
Actions defend themselves stakeholders are right against official
Harassment and exclusion state.
The Federal Constitutional Court has reduced benefits after
the Asylbewerberleistungsgesetz declared unconstitutional.
Now its full repeal and socially equal rights of refugees must follow. We also want the
Eliminate training and employment prohibitions for asylum seekers and
create a legal framework to ensure that refugees can move freely throughout the country. For this purpose we are creating from the residence obligation and commit ourselves to a less regimented life. We are committed to ensuring that refugees humanely
allowed to live in their own apartments. We also want to refugees
from the beginning to open up access to education, health, integration courses, language learning and communication media.
Many faults run under great protest with the
Fear that the deportees in their countries of origin again
be traced. But we need independent and reliable
Information as refugees after their deportation in their
Countries of origin such as Iran and Kosovo has been made and to what extent they
are again persecuted or discriminated against. In many cases this is sufficient
already taking note of the local authorities, an application for
Asylum asked to have abroad. While for some countries (for example,
Kosovo) not clearly ruled out a further prosecution
can be, we want a Abschiebemoratorium for these countries
adopted.
We want to abolish the deportation. Until then, they must be as
far as possible be avoided. The arrangement of the waste

234

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Strengthen citizens' rights

slide way related deprivation of liberty may be in a constitutional state, only a last resort and should as far as possible avoided
become. It represents the biggest intervention in the personal rights of individuals, knows the German legal system. In order to
is always a special psychological distress of those affected
connected. Detention is therefore always as a last resort for the immediate enforcement of an obligation to depart
look. Until the abolition of detention we want
at least for compliance with strict human rights standards
prevail. We want a strict separation of the criminal or
Trial detention and to limit the detention to a maximum of three
Months. In addition to the most vulnerable, such as minors, pregnant women, traumatized and old, are invariably excluded from the detention.
The degrading airport procedure in which asylum-seekers
be detained at the airport, must end.
All must have the right, each in court deportations
to effectively fight back - even if another EU state is responsible for your asylum procedure. Over many years living here, so far only tolerated
People need to have a reality independent suitable date
Provisions on residence rights get a secure future prospects.
Minors unaccompanied refugees require special protection. We are committed to the unconditional implementation of the
Convention on the Rights of the Child a. In particular, we want the raising of the ability to act in the asylum procedure from 16 to 18
Years. Unaccompanied minors are full access
get the benefits of child and youth services such as the health care system. For us, the motto is: "No one is illegal!" That's why we want that people without a residence permit
Have access to medical basic and emergency care
freely visit and her children kindergartens and schools
be able. Moreover must for people who over many years
have lived without residence status in Germany, the opportunity to obtain a secure residence permit be created. In the short term, we want the high penalties for irregular entry
and reduce irregular residence significantly.

235

Time for the green transformation

Creating 8. Equal Rights - homo- and
Oppose transphobia

Strengthen citizens' rights

Lesbians and gay men can be as free as never before to love and live in Germany. That is also a success green policy. However
Discrimination is not yet over. We therefore want a nationwide "Action Plan for Diversity", homophobia and
Transphobia counteracts, research, among others promotes discrimination and queer lifestyles, particularly among young people
strengthens and their exclusion of the parental home, at school and in
Leisure counteracts. In particular, we need to humans
of all ages, especially young people an expansion of Comingout consultancy. In class all lifestyles and sexual identities are to be represented on an equal footing. It must also
be possible, not heterosexual aged lifestyles free from
Discrimination to live.
In Article 3 of the Basic Law must be added that no one should be discriminated against because of sexual orientation. Us
want to open marriage for same-sex couples and allow the Community adoption law. Many children live
already with two mothers or fathers. This rainbow families
have a right to recognition. All families have the State
be of equal worth.
We support transsexual and intersex people
their struggle for their human rights. A reforming the TSG must have freedom and self-determination for the mission,
stop pathologizing and safeguard human dignity. The
Liability of health insurance must be secured. About
150 children are born every year in Germany, no
Gender can be clearly assigned. The forcibly
Sex reassignment of intersexed people must end. Sexual ambiguity must be legally authorized and
be acknowledged.
In many countries LGBTTI made life hell: prosecution, oppression, violence and censorship. German
Politics take a clear stance and actively strengthen human rights defenders here, including through financial support here
already successfully active civil society Hirschfeld eddy-

236

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Foundation. His membership in the UN Human Rights Council needs to be used for strengthening the rights of sexual minorities worldwide Germany. Commitment to human rights
is also all the more credible when Germany the victim of his own former anti-homosexual criminal laws (in particular
§ 175 of the Criminal Code) finally rehabilitated and compensated.

Who chooses GREEN ...
• makes the civil rights back strong.
• gets an effective privacy package.
• ensures inclusion and clear edge against discrimination.
• facilitates immigration, naturalization and protects
Refugees.
• open marriage for lesbian and gay couples.

Strengthen citizens' rights

• receive an intercultural opening of public institutions.

Key projects
Civil rights and the rule of law
strengthen - build new security architecture
We provide security at the service of freedom and not vice versa.
That is why we strengthen citizens' rights and provide basic rights in engaging security laws to the test. We rely on
Reforms in the judiciary, police and a clear break with the Constitutional protection. Renunciation of the use of undercover agents, human or structural restart, clear containment, control and regulated by law

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

237

Time for the green transformation

applies methods for intelligence powers, promotion
a new police culture, strengthening the rule of law: how we build
on a new security architecture.

Equal rights for equal love - marriage
open for same-sex couples
We want that all couples can enter into marriage. Thanks to us GREEN Germany was a pioneer in the introduction of registered life partnerships. Today many countries have overtaken us.
In Argentina, Spain, South Africa, the Netherlands and other countries, marriage was for same-sex couples already
open. This way must finally go Germany. This equality is completed - for example in control and civil service law or the equal adoption rights. Same love deserves equal respect and therefore the same rights.

Naturalization easier - Rights of
Strengthen asylum seekers

Strengthen citizens' rights

Many people have long been living in Germany without having staatsbürgerschaftliche rights. We rely on a naturalization offensive. This includes the acceptance of multiple citizenship, the acquisition of citizenship by birth in Germany and the
Deletion of the option coercion. We want the right of residence
a regulatory and legal defense converted into a real immigration law. Integration can only succeed if people
can live in legal certainty. We therefore advocate a generous right to family reunification and for a secure residence for people living in Germany long. Us
want a welcoming culture establish, inter alia, by
an intercultural opening of schools, hospitals, government agencies and other public institutions. The basic rights apply to all people living in Germany. We therefore demand
among other things, the abolition of the residence obligation and the Asylum Seekers Benefits Law. Not only the benefits are inadequate

238

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

accordingly. This law barred refugees also the way to the health system. For us, what the Federal Constitutional Court
has clarified unequivocally: The subsistence level is for all
equal in Germany.

Promote inclusive communities
- Ensure participation
We are committed to an inclusive society in which all people can participate in the community alive. People
with disabilities to live independently and on an equal footing
be able. We want to ensure a participatory power law on the way
bring where the assistance from the social welfare
be solved and the cost of title as well as the income and
Asset dependence are deleted. We advocate,
that the federal government participated in the context of overall social responsibility to the costs of the integration assistance.

The safety of consumers
strengthen - reforming drug policy

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Strengthen citizens' rights

The global "War on Drugs" has failed. Every year millions of people die due to the current policy of prohibition. Instead of tracking consumers we want a drug policy reform. We rely on the self-determination of the people.
The health risks we want to minimize through prevention and education. We call for the long term to the actual
health risks based regulation of all drugs. To belong to us, the expansion of Pill testing and needle exchange programs. We also want their own consumption
legalize and private cultivation of cannabis and taxing the sale. We want to use cannabis for medical and research.

239

Time for the green transformation

Create O. equality
How do we achieve a gender-equal society
and finally end the discrimination against women

Create equality

We want a gender-equitable society that allows a self-determined and solidary life. Gender-neutral
Politics wants the living conditions of women, men and trans and
Wear intersex invoice and thus the diversity of life.
At the center of our gender politics are a time policy
and conditions, the individual needs and different lifestyles of men and women account
carry. Because we all need time for periods of care work,
need for education, for careers, time for ourselves. These times
possible and they must be covered by social insurance.
For the Federal Government and its Minister are the
Diversity female lifestyles and complexity of social reality only disturbing. She holds traditional
Role models determine how they are in the unspeakable care allowance
express or Ehegattensplitting. It relies on voluntary support measures for the economy, although it has long been clear,
so that nothing moves, and fights with all means of
the EU Commission proposed quota for supervisory boards. However
there are tentative movement - after all. Even CSU politicians
arguing for the quota. Increasing interest of fathers in parental leave.
These are important achievements of the women's movement and also by us
GREEN. However, the progress remains a snail: Germany is European taillight with equal pay. It is
the wage gap in West Germany substantially greater, since women in
East Germany, even if they have children, are often employed and on a larger scale. Because the traditional breadwinner model had in the former GDR not social
Meaning as in the old Federal Republic attained. But even in
Eastern Germany has the infrastructure for parents deteriorated.
So take in the entire federal territory, the number of part-time or
minor jobs to women employees. Thus, the pension

240

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

gap bigger and poverty in old age is inevitable. The life course perspective the impact of decisions
clearly in a phase of life in a lifetime. We want a
Gender equality policy, the over all phases of life consistent across
is. It is contradictory to set fiscal incentives for the main breadwinner model by Ehegattensplitting, but after a
Divorce the speedy assurance of livelihood through their own
To demand employment.
"Men and women have equal rights. The state encourages the
actual implementation of equal rights for women and
Men and works towards the elimination of existing disadvantages. "
It says so in the Basic Law. It gives us the order to work towards the implementation of such equality. We want to fulfill this task. About Us It's crunch time and that means in concrete terms: "The
Half of power and responsibility between women and men. "
From an independent livelihood for women until then,
that men overtook overcome role models and the power in
all sectors of society is better distributed - there is still
much to be done before women can participate as it deserve.
Equality needs gender democracy. We want
create the conditions that women naturally
can participate on an equal footing - in society, in Parliament and in the workplace.
Equality creates the future, because only a gender-equitable society will cope with the tasks of tomorrow.

Create equality

1. Equal recognition, equal security, equal opportunity
The ideal of the family, especially in West Germany seems stable: a
male breadwinner, the mother - often equally or better
Qualified - juggling after a career break a part-time job that brings children from kindergarten, runs the household and cares for the relatives. In the meantime it is clear how
brittle this has become and what it entails high risks. Term jobs, unemployment, illness or divorce bring this construct very quickly into a skid. Also that there are more and more single parents, is too often forgotten. There is much

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

241

Time for the green transformation

Create equality

to do, because we do not live long in a society which
free from structural discrimination and power structures that
Discriminate against women. The not so new Unterhaltsrecht calls from the mothers after a divorce quickly pay for their own livelihoods - and looks for lost career advancement in the care times no compensations
before. On the other hand, a young, well-educated generation of women and more men are no longer willing to live a family handed down image. They demand equality in
Partnership, parental leave for both career interruptions and reducing working hours.
In particular, the independent livelihood through gainful employment for women are contrary to obstacles. This includes not only a lack of work-life balance, the
is still regarded as an individual problem of women
and not as a structural deficit, difficulties in professional entry and promotion. Here, many men do not want
more exercise a full-time employment, which for no time Children
or care work leaves. They want freedom of choice, which really is a free
Election leaves. Of this we are all compatibility rhetoric despite
still far away.
Voluntariness does not bring us any further. Without legislative measures that will not go. We want a pay equity law,
Regulations for the private sector and a quota for boards of directors and boards of directors. In perspective we want the ratio to also
expand other levels and so women are not only equal in boardrooms, but throughout the company. We must
regulate the working hours so that in addition to the right to work part time
is also a right to return to full-time. We need qualified according deals unemployed and women returners
a family time. The situation of single parents in the
recent years, even worse. To the risk of poverty
to diminish, they need special support in the form of
Care infrastructure and flexible working hours as well as the
Further development of the advance on maintenance payments. Are of old-age poverty
especially women affected. Reasons are in part-time work, mini-jobs and outs of caring for children and relatives, so the lack of work-life balance.

242

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Create equality

We want to change. Therefore we want to, inter alia, by the all-day kindergarten expansion, the expansion of all-day schools, through flexible
Work schedules and enter through greater acceptance of fathers in Elternund part-time women the opportunity to be gainfully employed. With
our concept of the guarantee pension, we propose also before a pension concept that especially protects women against poverty in old age.
The participation of women has increased, however, in
nearly constant working volume. More and more women
working less and less. However, many are with their working hours
dissatisfied and would prefer to work more and earn. Us
want to work and work volume between the sexes,
but also between a lot of work and unemployed or precarious
Distribute employees better. The so-called mini-jobs must
replacing a socially responsible manner. In combination with the co-insurance in the health insurance and the Ehegattensplitting
hinder the economic independence, because they send out the signal that a social insurance work
hardly worthwhile. Long-term disadvantages like low pensions of
the Merkel government ignored. We want the Ehegattensplitting
replaced by an individual taxation with transferable basic allowance. Revenue that missed the state through the Ehegattensplitting previously, we want to fund good
Kitas, all-day schools and use for a child's basic security.
Benefit communities we want to replace it with an individual
Livelihood. This change is indeed not on today
tomorrow, but we want to tackle this change in the next legislative period and initiate concrete steps. In the short term, we need access to all the measures of labor market development independently from benefit.
In a society that is experiencing diversity as enrichment, comes
Migrants play an important role to. However, many find despite
qualified for only one low-paid jobs, for example,
in the cleaning or maintenance. When training places and study choices choose just young women from a limited spectrum. So they do not take advantage of their potential, the economy lost important junior staff. Young women and
Men and employers should look for gender-atypical
Decisions are motivated.

243

Time for the green transformation

2. assist men in new roles

Create equality

Equal rights and duties, we will only be achieved if
men more than actors for gender equality in the view
be taken. More and more men realize that traditional male roles also have negative sides of it, and want
for example, no longer only earner or main breadwinner of the
His family, but also want to have an active fatherhood.
They find, however - just like women - conditions
before that promote traditional role behavior. Green politics is feminist and emancipatory, it solves gender roles and
enables people everywhere more individual design freedom. This move comes in the gender policy debate. To
it is necessary to support men, boys and fathers is to be
to network better in gender equality concerns. they are
Partners in the implementation of equality. Your concerns and
Needs to find their own space in the gender policy debate.
We want to support men, to break new ground and also
increased professions classically exercised majority of women
be such as in the educational area and the so-called
Care work to take. The reconciliation of private and professional lives is also an issue for men. The "Partner months" when
Parental benefits were and are a first success. A further development
parental leave should make it more natural for men,
to take up family responsibilities. A gender-sensitive education is the extent to which all the children individually best
can be promoted. That is why we support gender-sensitive education and career guidance services.
The policy must take into account the changes in the roles of men and more like science. Us
want regular reporting and accompanying research for
Implement gender issues. We need an awakening for men's health, a stronger focus on the prevention and
Checkups of men diseases in the health insurance and in workplace health promotion. On the subject
Men are victims of violence so far in front of barely data. Here

244

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

we want more research as well as a social debate.

3. Complete Democracy

Create equality

Our democracy thrives on the commitment, on participation. In fact, decreases in many state legislatures and municipal councils of
The proportion of women. That's almost 100 years after the introduction of the
Women's suffrage in Germany an extremely alarming trend.
We want also with legal regulations and the proportion of women
increase political participation, similar to that made possible with the French parity law. Experience has shown that increase
especially fixed quotas the number of women in political parties and parliaments. A documentation requirement of women or men in nomination events we want to collect gender-sensitive data on political participation processes.
We adhere to the strategy of gender mainstreaming laid, with
of on all political actions after the impact
Women and men will be asked. Our goal is gender democracy that includes a fair representation of women and men. A nationwide research institution for equality should
pooling scientific expertise, initiate discussion processes
and support. We want to create a second federal equality report, which sets out the priorities in the areas,
which could not be dealt with in detail in the first report.
The introduction of gender budgeting at all levels
we want equality in the field of budgetary policy
implement. Makes the gender-sensitive analysis of a household
clear what impact the use of public funds
has on women and men in different social and economic circumstances.

4. decide on the body itself
Self-determination also includes one's own body. Women need to freely dispose of their pregnancies and without criminalization

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

245

Time for the green transformation

Create equality

can decide. The right to information and voluntary counseling must be open to all. As well as voluntary offerings around prenatal examination methods. In Germany there is a high rate of births by Caesarean section. Us
want to strengthen the guidance and support by midwives
with the aim of allowing women a self-determined decision. Disincentives to carry not medically indicated
Caesarean sections should be abolished. Women need during
pregnancy, childbirth and in the follow-up access to a
continuous care from a midwife they trust
have. For recipients of transfer payments contraceptives should be provided free of charge. The "morning after pill" should be available without a prescription. On the side effects and the need for
from check-ups should be pointed.
The pressure to optimize your own body as much as possible is actually present. Deviations from the norm are hard
to live, cases of eating disorders are increasing, as is the proportion
of cosmetic surgery. Here comes the photogeshoppten,
obviously partly, partly more subtle sexist advertising
a not insignificant role. Is precisely for young people
built up a high pressure and conveys a rigid ideal of beauty. Using a social communication process is required, the sensitized and sexism for physical diversity
the media outlaws.
Deviations from the norm of the two sexes are in
our present society hard to live, but must be self-determination possible. Although intersex people mostly
medical intervention or hormone preparations can live without,
are often operated on immediately after birth and often suffer
their entire lives under it. There is a lack of information and advice
the parents and enough trained medical personnel.
The right to physical integrity should also apply to intersex people. We therefore demand that medically unnecessary
Carried out interventions only with the consent of the intersex itself
can be.

246

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

5. outlaw violence

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Create equality

Violence is a harsh reality for many women. The Violence Protection Act
has facilitated the transfer of the situation Apartment for
Victims of violence substantially improved in families. Nevertheless, each year about 34,000 women and children to flee in women's shelters.
Neither the number of places still the support and guidance are sufficient. We need specific offers and courses
in women's shelters, especially for women with disabilities, migrant women, women with children and other dependents women. With the
central emergency number are more concerned to achieve -
but then need to get more resources and support facilities. Even older women, migrant women, women with low
Income and women in training or without their own income have difficulties. Affected as a special group of violence are also women in homelessness. You are
often be problematic in dependency ratios and
due to a lack of fixed residence does not in women's shelters
added. You need to be made independent support services. We need sufficient funding
for offering high quality through the acquisition as
ensure government task for all these specific needs. For women rape victims must be timely qualified emergency care and treatment including (anonymous) forensics and emergency contraception with the "morning after pill" in all
German hospitals be ensured. Funding for the
Emergency kit must be guaranteed.
Rape myths that lead to those affected by
sexual violence is generally attributed part of the blame,
are still widespread in Germany. They help
in that the number of unreported cases for this crime is still very high.
We therefore want to ensure that sufferers throughout Germany
be supervised by trained and sensitized regular police and judicial officials. In addition, should the financing of
extensive support and advisory services to be ensured. Thereby we want the victims of sexualised
Protect violence of a renewed traumatisation. This includes
a review of the penal code.

247

Time for the green transformation

Create equality

Women and girls with disabilities are regularly exposed to multiple discrimination. There are too few offers and
too little protection for them in the institutions where they live. That is why we need mandatory anti-discrimination measures and specific support, so that they too self-determined
can live. A gender-sensitive orientation of inclusion
and comprehensive measures against the multiple discrimination
and violence against women and girls with disabilities is urgently
required.
The red-green prostitution law has decriminalized the sex industry of the area, and ends the double standard in law. That
was a long overdue step. A return to the prohibition of
Prostitution would urge the prostitutes into illegality, their
Deteriorating working conditions and further more they run the risk of violent attacks. However, it remained
then stop halfway. Therefore, we will continue to develop the Prostitution Act in the Bundestag. Our goal is the greatest possible protection of prostitutes. The advisory and
Offer of help we want to expand and low threshold access
do. Sex workers must be informed of their rights. We want an extension of the exit programs. We rely not on limitations, but on the right: How to
inter alia, prostitution holdings above a certain size
They are subject to trade regulations permit requirement. By trade law verifications of prostitution sites and their operators we want to protect sex workers and make their working conditions more secure. We also want them legally
better protect against exorbitant rents and exploitation and check,
the extent of access to social security to be improved
can. We also want to provide free medical counseling services for sex workers.
Trafficking for sexual exploitation is an
blatant violation of human rights and a serious, heinous crime. The implementation of the Euro Europe Convention against human trafficking and the EUOpferschutzrichtlinie requires legal
New regulations at national level. The victims must be better
be protected from deportation, in particular, but not only
during ongoing court proceedings. A permanent residence permits

248

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

would their display and willingness to testify and significantly increase
so lead to the identification of perpetrators, and elucidation of the structures.
Trafficking victims who act as witnesses, you need a
comprehensive victim protection program. Free of forced prostitutes must also be held criminally responsible
can, if they know that it is the victim of a
Forced prostitution is. Furthermore, all victims need of
Forced marriage an independent and permanent right of return.
Women and men who want to escape a forced marriage, must be helped quickly, competently and effectively.
This requires transnational actions and for all binding guidelines.
Also live in Germany, many of genital mutilation
affected or threatened women and girls. We want
explicitly include a case of aggravated assault in the Criminal Code. A punishment must also be possible,
when girls were brought to the country.

6. European and international policy on women

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Create equality

Germany is a global player and that must also be reflected in our policy on women. The black-yellow government torpedoed on
EU level, the initiative to introduce a quota for supervisory boards.
They shortened in development aid funds for projects for the equality of women and highlights the commitment of funds to the advancement of women on. For the implementation of CEDAW (UN Women's Convention), the government gets bad grades. And the
Meetings of UN Women remains remote Minister Schröder.
We Greens take the international bodies seriously and will be present also in the women's and gender equality policies. Us
be influence, stand by our responsibility and provide financial resources at an appropriate level for this purpose.
50% of the food and more than 70% of the world's clothing
are produced by women and bought in Germany.
Here we have a responsibility to commit ourselves with and for women in the producing countries for good working conditions. On
there is the other side of countries which are in Gender Equality
are far ahead. The exchange with these countries is valuable.

249

Time for the green transformation

Also, our diplomatic service makes every day very practical foreign policy and needed to gender policy expertise. We will also for more diplomats in the
German missions a world.

Who chooses GREEN ...
• want an equal cooperation of women and
Men.
• is responsible for the economic independence and farewell
the main breadwinner model.
• provides equal opportunities for women in the labor market.
• get more women in parliaments and decision-making positions.
• advocates for a life without force.

Key projects

Create equality

Equal pay for equal and equivalent
Work - adopt a pay equity law
Women receive on average 22% still less than men. Typical female professions are paid less than typical
Male professions. Commitments of the Economic and voluntariness have led in the past decade to nothing. Therefore
we want the commandment of equal pay for equal work and work with legal regulations and appropriate
Sanctions prevail. This same activities and equivalent jobs are finally paid the same.

250

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Promote economic independence
Replace Ehegattensplitting -
Our goal is that each and everyone has the opportunity, what he
or they need to live, to earn themselves. It must
Times be hedged course of inactivity.
Traditional role models that our tax and social legislation
until today dominate, hinder this. Structures, especially for women
constitute significant barriers acquisition, we want to break down, to
include among others the replacement of mini-jobs, the transfer of
free co-insurance in the citizens insurance
and the expansion of childcare and educational infrastructure. The Ehegattensplitting we therefore want by individual taxation
replace with transferable subsistence. We boost
the employment incentives for women who make an important contribution to
independent livelihood security and reduce the risk of poverty
Women and families. We are in a first step, to 60,000 euro income splitting with a cover of loads
exempt. The released funds will be in the massive
Increasing care infrastructure and invest in the building of a children's basic security. With a comprehensive program of action we will support women, to (re-) enter
designed to existence-securing gainful employment successfully.

Create equality

Half of the power the women - one
introduce mandatory quota
Various voluntary commitments of the businesses remained without greater impact on the proportion of women in the governing bodies. We are tired of the lip service and want to finally acts
see, in order to eliminate the glass ceiling for women. Legal
Quotas for boards of directors and board members as in Norway are
break the men in the upper echelons clubs and more
Quality and diversity lead. Female role models will have a positive
impact and other women to follow suit. This will create a
better basis for a gender-equitable society.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

251

Time for the green transformation

P. art and culture be fl ügeln
How do we encourage art as social stumbling block, promote cultural change and strengthen the sport

Inspire art and culture

Art and culture allow us the world through different eyes
to see a differentiated listen and reconsider. They are vital for self-determination and social participation and promote
the democratic development of a society. They are a crucial field of social participation. You can be driving force for change and for the continuous development of our value system. A vibrant and forward-looking society trainable
needs a strong cultural infrastructure, cultural participation, cultural education and an active cultural policy. We stand for fair working conditions, artistic freedom, equal access
and transparent eligibility criteria and a transparent allocation of funds. The creative people in our country afford one hand, a great contribution to the prosperity and thus the tax revenues,
on the other hand have many independent artists and other creative people
cope with an income just above the subsistence level. Besides the big houses and the traditional cultural institutions we are the free initiatives and projects more
support and also give them more recognition.
Cultural policy should transcend boundaries according to our understanding and build bridges. You may also be based on a global dialogue and in European integration and understanding.
Art and culture promote the change of perspective and a sense
that we are in a world dependent on each other. With
Look at the dynamics of globalization is the Foreign KulturUnd education policies important task of the federal government.
There is an agreement that a vibrant, adaptive society a strong cultural infrastructure for cultural participation
all needs. But for that we need a different, an active and
foresighted cultural policy. We see and promote art and
Culture disadvantaged as a key to participation in society

252

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

ligter populations - in the city, Quartiers- and regional development, construction projects, the layout and design of
public open spaces, in environmental education and for the constant
Development of new cultural facilities. Given changed social requirements, greater social segregation
and tight budgets, the question of obtaining, necessary changes and realignments where appropriate cultural activities,
Institutions and subsidies to ask again and again.
We support cultural places where everyone can participate
- Active and passive. Art and culture are for us not an elitist project -
for comprehensive with the representation or the thick wallet.
We support the cultural institutions therein, possibility rooms
to provide for all. We stand for the promotion of art and
Cultural sector by maintaining and creating culture-friendly conditions.
Good cultural policy creates the future and quality of life. We need the creativity and the power to see things differently than we do
are used, and the courage to do things differently than
they have always been done. This is true for the future of democracy and human rights as well as for a world in sustainability and peace. Sport and exercise are important aspects
our social life and self-realization of every human being. Sports culture is diverse and the expression of a
vibrant and colorful society.

1. Open the cultural institutions for all

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Inspire art and culture

We provide for all access to art and culture, by
focus on cultural education and strengthen cultural institutions locally. Our goal is that more people in the cultural
Rooms come in the theaters, concert halls, cinemas, museums, clubs and libraries. For this, we are reducing the barriers that physical
as the social. Our cultural landscape must be interesting for each and everyone, affordable and accessible.
Through cultural education to many people is the door to the art
pushed. School subjects like music and art are an essential part of a good education. We need sufficient staff,

253

Time for the green transformation

Inspire art and culture

in particular artistic teachers, and a stronger cooperation with the colleagues from other departments, cultural institutions, as well as external cultural workers. The pilot projects of the German Federal Cultural Foundation in doing so already an important contribution,
we will support with additional resources. Simultaneously
we recognize and promote the potential of youth and subcultural
Facilities like skater parks and youth centers. These spaces are a
Possibility to pick up the people where they are - to develop together with you these spaces.
Even in non-school settings, the cultural institutions should be open to all, especially children and adolescents. For that we need more culture educators who firmly into the
Anchored worldwide. We are strengthening decentralized low-threshold and cultural activities such as in youth centers or children's and youth theaters. We are finding that people with a migration background
are underrepresented in many cultural institutions. Here we see
great action and the cultural institutions in
strengthen the intercultural opening. In a globalizing
World are trans- and intercultural projects and experience a
large driving force for creativity. With them is also produced a new,
critical and inclusive picture of home and belonging. Not
Finally, we are committed to more accessibility, so culture is accessible to all. One example of accessibility is our green
Commitment to barrier-free film. Subtitling and audio description for people with hearing or visual impairments are
Thanks to our initiative in the federal film funding now mandatory.
We want that this example makes wide school - also in the television offer.

2. justice for all cultural workers
A society without artists and other creative people are poor and
empty. Private cultural sponsorship is important; It may be used alone but do not provide a basis for artistic and cultural expression. Us
cultural workers must provide as much certainty that they can experiment and even fail, they challenge us,
can criticize or irritate. Are art and cultural works

254

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Inspire art and culture

Registered created by different people, professional,
semi professional, but also in their free time.
In Germany, about one million are working highly qualified cultural workers, artists and other creative people. All cultural workers
need in Germany proper tax and legal
Conditions. We provide fair working conditions and
more social security and contact us for minimum safeguards and royalty sub-limits for all trained interpreters,
Stage performers and teachers without permanent employment in art
and culture. We ensure that they are secure in spite of fragile employment histories of the unemployment and the sickness benefit claim. The juxtaposition of temporary
Fee contracts beyond a reasonable compensation, we want
end. With the introduction of universal health insurance, we get the
Principles of social insurance for artists.
Even when teaching people in art and culture juxtapositions set of temporary royalty agreements without permanent social security becoming increasingly popular, far from
equitable remuneration.
The digital society is a reality, offering numerous,
new opportunities for cultural participation and cultural diversity. Established art forms can evolve on the Internet
and new occur, participation and actions are revolutionizing. We want artistic achievement and creative work as
such is recognized and adequately remunerated. This needs further proviso in the reform and modernization of copyright
be. We want creators and users in their rights
strengthen while promoting respect and trust between artists and users. Therefore we rely on a fair
Balance of interests. With the reform of copyright contract law will strengthen the creators, because they are now often in a weak
Negotiating position with their business partners, the
Recyclers and mediators between creators
and users are. We want the conciliation procedure on
Make compensation rules between creatives and recyclers inside so that it at the end to a binding for both sides
leads. In addition, the holders of rights of use to the
Inform creative on demand about how often their work or

255

Time for the green transformation

their performance was used, generating income which so
were. Because only if they fully aware of the use of their works
or services are informed, author and artists can demand on this basis an adequate remuneration.
Furthermore, care must be taken to ensure that agreements found to be controlled and enforced in cases of dispute.
Moral rights must be preserved in the future
remain so creators can continue to decide on the use of their own content. Mission Statement for our political
Work in this area is the Universal Declaration of Human Rights: that each and everyone has the right, of the cultural life
Freely to participate in community, to enjoy the arts
and scientific advancement and its benefits
participate. Likewise, each and everyone has the right to protection of
moral and material interests that her / him as the author of
Works of science, literature or artistic production.

3. A reform of cultural promotion

Inspire art and culture

We provide a reliable, transparent and public funding of culture in the times of the debt crises and the debt brake. Therefore, we want the existing fund, among other things, socio-cultural and performing arts, under the umbrella of
Strengthen the Federal Cultural Foundation and supplemented by a program to promote artistic expressions of youth culture.
The promotion of the cultural work of the displaced persons is no longer
contemporary and often leads to conflict, instead of understanding
promoting with our neighbors. We set up the promotion of new and jointly create more transparency. The Minister of State may not continue on alone behind closed doors
the approval of grant applications to decide, but we need transparent criteria, public, opinions jury meetings
and a regular evaluation in each funding area. Also the
Local authorities must be relieved more locally to safeguard its independent cultural promotion. The additional revenue through
the green reform of inheritance tax are also a great opportunity
for the culture. As Greens we are fighting in federal, state and com-

256

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Inspire art and culture

municipalities together to ensure that it is used. We advocate for the
Support regional cultural infrastructure, such as the local
Book trade and small local cinemas, a.
We are committed to unique cultural landscape of the Federal Republic, with its theaters, orchestras, the independent scene and
Facilities at the Sociocultural. We want the financial
Divide not between established houses and the independent scene
is getting bigger. The long-term aim must be that cooperation
to stabilize with the independent scene and for its better financial
To ensure security. We promote various forms of theater and strengthen production communities. We see also
the responsibility for the culture that is not financed by public funds. The development must not only the forces of
Market be left. More support and mediation
of politicians are necessary here. We call for examining an
KfW Special Programme cultural promotion, grants bridging loans in case of imminent closure. Also in the energy
Restoration of cultural buildings to cultural institutions from the
existing programs will benefit.
We pick up the double financing prohibition to straight on
this field to promote inter-ministerial cooperation. Us
planning to set up a fund for "Aesthetics and Sustainability". Because the ecological crisis requires a restructuring of our
society as a whole, which is not in technical issues like
Exhausted building renovation, but completely new ways of life
will bring forth. We have from the tradition of European
City a new architectural culture with man as the central measure
to develop. For this purpose, policies, strategies and structures of the public design are to develop - "infrastructure of happiness", the
face up to the global and local responsibilities, to without the measure
personal liberty limit. This development we must
do not leave the sphere of the economy - the arts, culture and
Science must participate actively.
Whether acting, music, pictures, movies, computer games or books
- We need to promote a differentiated view of the
various media. We encourage all creative forms of theater
and strengthen the productive communities. We call for the establishment of a fund "New Music" to promote the production,

257

Time for the green transformation

Inspire art and culture

Performance and communication of new musical works from all
musical lines and support especially young musicians, by more rehearsal and performance opportunities are created. Want the cultural uses for vacant buildings
we simplify. This enables us to also the property of the
Better use of federal. The diverse club scene we want to preserve.
Artists received so far for the public
Exhibition of her work usually no compensation. We therefore demand that the federal government issue a mandatory payment
receives to visual artists in its eligibility criteria. This allows the federal government to play a role model
for states, municipalities and private exhibitors. Graffiti artists
more space and their culture well enough public opportunity for development must therefore be given.
We want to promote the film in Germany from the head to the
Feet make. When Filmförderung it comes to the realization
demanding creative projects - and not only to sophisticated
Marketing plans. Not squinting to Hollywood, but high-quality films are the guarantee for long-term success of the
German and European film. We therefore want to give the cultural criteria in FilmFörderung regain weight and take the regional film and media industries as well as small and free
Productions in the view. This requires reforms in the
Bodies FilmFörderung. Creative filmmakers have more
Get influence. We support the greening of the economy of culture, of the climate-friendly production through CO2 neutral
Transport, non-toxic and reusable materials to
sustainable catering. To this end, we are strengthening the funding regulations. That is why we advocate a "Green Film" initiative in
the Federal Film Fund. Computer games are creative works. Us
seeking to expand the promotion of cultural quality and exceptional Games on the Computer Game Award of the Federal Government addition.
We are proud of the diverse literary landscape in the Federal Republic and want to support them by encouraging young writers, authors with new and creative approaches and good
Create conditions for small publishers. We contribute

258

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

that reading promotion is stepped up and not only to
Schools takes place. Reading and writing are the key
Requirements for media and consumer expertise, integration
and inclusion, social and political participation. That is why we want to keep the public, non-commercial libraries
- To as places of low-threshold and low-cost access
Literature and knowledge. We also want the Electronic Loan in
Simplify libraries.
We need our cultural heritage as a source of reflection
and as a testimony to constant change. Therefore, should the digitization
and archiving of video and audio art, music and film archives, flyer and street art, as well as "volatile" arts, such as
Theater and dance, promoted and made accessible.
Appropriate hurdles we want to break down. Like the visual heritage must also file moderately documented historical heritage
are digitized from the archives, libraries and museums to
permanently to remain part of the culture of remembrance.

4. impetus for democracy and human rights,
Sustainability and peace

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Inspire art and culture

Democracy needs culture. Cultural places are places of social encounter, the productive friction. They are cradles of democratic ideas and processes. They make room for
New, for reflection and opposition for debate and discourse. they
are our social laboratory - away from the sound of tangible coercion. Culture is a medium of freedom and individuality. Where
they - even under the pretext of "insulting religious sanctities" -
human rights have become the targets of anti-democratic forces and
is, we are determined for them to take sides.
Culture creates space for protest. Especially in places of oppression and in times of persecution. In systematic human rights violations, the art is often the only mouthpiece, on
the protest reached us yet. We need to keep open the channels.
Stand up artists who are brave enough and
To resist, find our solidarity: the Chinese
Writer Liao Yiwu to the Russian band Pussy Riot, the

259

Time for the green transformation

Inspire art and culture

Poets of the Arab Spring to the Iranian filmmaker Jafar Panahi.
Culture is an important tool in the prevention work and in
Fight against right. Neo-Nazis have in regions
without zureichendes cultural activities, without youth centers and other
Meeting places, often an easy game. We therefore call
also for the cultural initiatives against right
and group-focused enmity safe and verstetigte funding by the federal government.
Culture asks questions for an ecologically responsible lifestyle. These issues and irritations can from us
tear out the phlegm of everyday ressourcenverschwendenden convenience. That is why we are the policy field in Culture
the progress report on the National Sustainability Strategy record.
Cultural policy is peace policy. Foreign cultural policy and
international cultural exchange among the most important instruments for international understanding. The foreign cultural policy
We will therefore strengthen, in particular intermediaries
as the Goethe Institute and German Academic Exchange Service.
We understand cultural understanding as a key for a growing together Europe and for the necessary "dialogue of
Cultures "world. Culture may open dialogues with countries to
where there is no further additions. It plays an important role
in crisis prevention and conflict overcoming. Their importance for the development cooperation is increasingly recognized.
For the purposes of the "UNESCO Declaration on Cultural Diversity" understand
we the diversity of cultures as an essential resource for the future
of humanity.

260

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

5. Reminder to keep alive - take responsibility

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Inspire art and culture

Germany's responsibility for the crimes of National Socialism and the expulsion and murder of over six million people of Jewish descent must be reflected
Find in a diverse culture of remembrance. This is even more important, as soon be able to report no survivors and contemporary witnesses of Nazism from their experience. Even before this
Background this country has not much time, its necessary
Perceive responsibility. So found opposite the second largest group of victims of Nazi, Soviet prisoners of war, to
There are no recognized as victims of racial persecution and no compensation instead. We will demand this as a recognition of the victims of the Nazi "euthanasia" programs and the forced sterilization as victims of racial persecution of National Socialism. Especially in
The field of education must be anchored systematically new forms of cultural memory. Memorials, memorial sites, museums, libraries and archives need to be cared for by specially trained educators and coordinated nationwide.
Also part of the reminder for us to work up one's own past and to intensify the confrontation with the life and work of persecuted artists in the context. We welcome you on green initiative, an information place "T4" to the
Nazi euthanasia murders arises. It is also gratifying that in Berlin finally a memorial for the murdered in the Nazi era and Sinti
Roma are. But obviously it is sufficient not to inaugurate monuments because while we murdered under National Socialism
Commemorate the Sinti and Roma, operates the black-yellow government against the survivors a racist "asylum abuse" - or
"Poverty immigration" campaign.
We need work-up also in the ministries and agencies. They should let examine their Nazi past as we
there have triggered approximately at the Foreign Office. What is needed is now a
systematic approach, also in view of the major irritations
in handling of federal departments and agencies with Nazi criminals such as Eichmann, Barbie or Carl Theodor Schütz. We need
clear criteria for further investigation and dealing with the
Results. And better coordination in the workup -

261

Time for the green transformation

at the federal level, but also in the country, counties and municipalities
into it. Because the Nazi regime was comprehensively. And their legacies are too.
The history of the GDR as a state of injustice has to be worked up further broad and balanced coverage. For this, the Stasi files Authority is an important part. We are committed
one that the "Parliament of Trees against War and Violence" by
Ben Wagin is provided with the single wall remains in the government district under monumental protection. The confrontation with the
Life in the GDR, with the pursuit of the arts and the role of
Artists in the GDR and of Stalinism in the Soviet-occupied zone must be part of school education in Eastern and
West Germany are.
The German colonial history, their crimes and continuities deserve more attention in the research and the
Reminder. Bigoted renationalisation of culture and of history, we do not need in a globalized world.

6. Long life sport

Inspire art and culture

Sport is for the health and well-being of every human being
important and makes a significant contribution to the social cohesion of our society. Here the sport in Germany is
supported by a unique civil society involvement in clubs, which we strongly support.
Germany has a diverse and vibrant sports culture. Our sports clubs and sports venues are places of encounter between
People of different sexes and ages, different backgrounds, sexual orientation and religion. Even the youngest children
learn playing sports team spirit and fair dealings with each other
and acquire social skills such as dealing with success
and failures. Even world unfolds sports facilities of
Dialogue and exchanges. At the same time we understand sport as part
the education and health system and want to create an environment so that all people can participate in the sport.
The barrier-free design of sports facilities is as important as the development of existing, against this background

262

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Inspire art and culture

Sports Concepts by the associations and clubs. Is long overdue the approximation of the promotion of Olympic sports and paralympischem in all areas. We Greens are committed also
to ensure that the diversity of sports is more strongly shown in the public media and thereby made visible.
In addition to supporting grassroots sport, we are committed
a transparent top sports promoting a, in which the athletes are at the center. The responsible
Dealing with young Sport athletes requires the establishment of dual careers, where in addition to the sporting career planning
personal development is considered in school, university and vocational.
All forms of violence, right-wing extremism, racism, anti-Semitism, Islamophobia, sexism, homophobia and transphobia, we will together with clubs, associations, civil society actors and social preventive working experts
and experts actively oppose. To this end, we also occur
for a strengthening of the coordination center a fan projects. We stand
to self-managed sports and will support him in his fight against doping and corruption and for more transparency in their own structures and decisions. Both doping
and corruption, contrary to the fairness thoughts. Doping also bad for your health. That is why we need an anti-doping law, a more effective prevention policy and the influence of
Sports federations and by the state Independent National
Anti-Doping Agency Germany with a permanent and adequate funding. The goal is a sustainable and effective fight against doping, which is also the personal rights of athletes
and protects athletes.
Potential of sport for environmental and climate protection and the conservation of biodiversity it is important to make greater use. Sustainability aspects we want to anchor more in sports and programs
support and initiatives for climate and environmentally friendly sports and promote. Fairness is the possibility, this range
the conduct of major sporting events and at the
To consider the planning and development of sports venues with.
Target green sports policy is the harmony between sport and nature.

263

Time for the green transformation

Who chooses GREEN ...
• promoting a diverse and sustainable cultural landscape,
in which everyone can participate.
• creates a better social, legal and economic conditions for artists and cultural workers.
• strengthens the independent scene and secures the best cultural institutions.
• selects cultural education from the very beginning.
• supports the multifaceted commitment to the sport and
is committed to a fair and accessible sport.

Key projects
Strengthen cultural workers back
Reforming copyright contract law -

Inspire art and culture

Fair contractual relationships exist only when creators and authors with their exploiters interior can negotiate on an equal footing. At
recent years it has been shown that this is not given.
That is why we call for a strengthening of the rights of creators and
Author. We want to make the conciliation procedure on compensation rules between creatives and recyclers inside so that it
at the end leads to a binding for both sides. In addition, holders of rights to use the creatives have to inform about how often was used her work and what income was generated it. Only when they comprehensively about
the use of their works are informed, can creators a
negotiate adequate compensation.

264

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Better protect cultural workers - fair Arrivals
create unemployment
Many artists and other creative people are socially little or no
hedged. Even discontinuous Employees need fair working conditions and greater social security. We therefore allow
get those unemployment benefits, who paid at least four months within two years in unemployment insurance, and create a temporary break in the mediation SGB II and
SGB ​​III. The sick pay scheme we to fit: Instead - as
introduced by black and yellow - after seven weeks later than intended
from the 15th day, but usually as early as 1 day a sickness benefit claim be possible. With the introduction of universal health insurance, we will preserve the principles of social insurance for artists. So we create the security that needs creative courage.

Keep alive memories for a better future
- The processing of the Nazi past in
Promote ministries and agencies

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Inspire art and culture

The Nazi regime was comprehensively. The work-up of their legacies is a question of democratic
Self-assurance. On dealing with the Nazi past
in our government institutions is being widely discussed, it is a
important chapter of democratic culture of remembrance. The interpretation given by former Foreign Minister Joschka Fischer commissioned study
Nazi past of the Foreign Office was an important impetus.
But still there are many open and urgent questions and many gaps in the work-up. We want to systematically tackle this task, close gaps in the work-up and criteria for the
Define handling of the research results. Here want
We also include state and local governments.

265

Time for the green transformation

Q. Our policy on the ground
How do we create affordable housing, local authorities strongly
and make for a fair balance between the
Regions come

Our policy on the ground

Politics is alive locally. In the municipalities are abstract
Laws to make decisions that shape our daily lives. We feel,
that the air will be better if the mayor on the bike,
Buses and intelligent traffic guidance sets. We are experiencing exciting theater evenings, because the mayor cultural diversity
at heart. But we also realize how precarious financial situation,
when the pool zubleibt or it drips through the school roof.
We Greens are active much on the spot and therefore have the situation on the spot at a glance. We look at the concerns of mayors, the councilors in cities, municipalities and districts. You make every day a great job, but are from the federal government and of the
Countries too often left alone. The Union continues to be much
expensive prestige projects - and want the million graves in doubt
prevail against the will of the people and at the expense of sustainable infrastructure. We are one hundred small stages prefer
as an arena. Instead of over-priced Central station we want
faster rail connections throughout the region.
Green policy on the ground is particularly affordable housing for all
enable. Housing is a basic need, here we are at home
and make neighborhood. To tenants before better
To protect displacement and creating sustainable, affordable housing, all levels must work together - from the
Commune spot to federal politics.
Most citizens is clear Locally: The local authorities need more support. We are therefore
transported to a cooperative federalism a, the equivalent living conditions in all regions. Of course, differs
life in a metropolis of the in the country, but local authorities must be capable of all the basics for a good,
creating varied cooperation.

266

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Our policy allows all people in society
Local Participation. We support the local authorities to provide a social
and cultural infrastructure to create, open to all, because
here decided whether participation really succeed.
Our policy allows intervention on site. People in
the municipalities have the ideas and the force for a living
Commonwealth. What they need is the opportunity to Join the conversation
and Mittun.
Our policy creates locally future. By municipalities
support and relieve, we open up new design possibilities and room for maneuver. We are working on with the green
City of the Future - diverse, solidarity and sustainable.

1. housing affordable green

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Our policy on the ground

Sustainable housing policy means above all social rent law,
welfare-oriented housing construction and the energy modernization of buildings to think together. While some regions are struggling with vacant housing, housing is in
economically strong regions increasingly scarce and expensive. Already live in Germany today three out of four people in cities. This awakens
speculative appetites and increases the pressure on the tenants. But our cities are cities for all citizens - rather than playgrounds for speculators. Nobody
will have to draw from their own neighborhood, because the rent suddenly
is too high. The negative effects of gentrification we can no longer tolerate and we have taken the right answers.
The biggest price drivers are current reletting rents. They should in future no higher than 10% above the usual local
May be compared to rent, where housing shortage. At
current contracts we slow down the increase in rents by the throttling of the regular increase in the local comparative rent.
Also in the course of modernization, we reduce the rent
to a maximum of 9% of the cost per year and they are limited to the
energy-efficient renovation and age-appropriate reconstruction. Local authorities we provide better tools with which, by the

267

Time for the green transformation

Our policy on the ground

Building Code reform, so are also the introduction of rent limits and extended protection possible against the disadvantages of ownership transformation. The brokerage fees are
in many places become a real cost factor. Therefore, should the
Broker or the broker pay, who instructed him or her.
In many places, the pressure on the tenants by the financial crisis and the associated real estate speculation is with
Rent increases, ownership transformation and new luxury housing still increased. It is true especially people with low
and unsecured income and tightened so that the social and
spatial division of society. The number of households that are more
have to spend 40% of their income on housing and
are forced into transfer payments, rises threatening. Women who more often than men raising children alone and in section
have lower wages and pensions, which are particularly true
affected. Also must therefore experiencing a renaissance of social housing in Germany. Since 2000, the number is
Social housing declined in Germany by almost a third - with
consequences for the tenants. But now there is the
Question of securing social and public housing stocks
new. The federal government is the state and local governments better at social
Housing and targeted acquisitions in inner-city locations
support. The compensation funds from the Federal to 2019
will continue to be paid earmarked to the federal states. Unlike in the 70s but no ghettos may suburbs
be pulled up because social housing are in lively neighborhoods. The housing allowance should again be strengthened as a tool
be to prevent households in transfer payments
be crowded. The prevention of homelessness
us an important goal. For the municipalities initially need a
Flat Emergency nationwide statistics.
When trading with real estate we want the financial investors
achieve tax. Even in dealing with derelict properties, the so-called junk property, and to ensure the quality of living we want the capabilities of the municipalities
strengthen. For this purpose, has a Commission of Inquiry of the Landtag NRW
where groundbreaking recommendations. Last but not least we want to examine whether legislation for a new general interest

268

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Our policy on the ground

Housing industry are again useful, and say that apartments are only to be sold in the public sector if necessary
- And then preferably economize on sustainable societies.
Support the establishment of district-oriented cooperatives
We also - for example, by for residents who are
together close to housing cooperatives, a pre-emptive right
introduce.
The energetic modernization of the apartments and all other building is a key part of the energy revolution. 40% of the
Energy is consumed here - especially for warm homes.
In 2012 alone, the heating costs have risen by 12%. Energetic
Modernization is the best safeguard for the most affordable heating costs in the future. Just because we make ourselves strong GREEN for a climate neutral building stock by 2050, we are committed to a
socially equitable rent and housing policy a. It targets
we depend on Warmmiete neutrality. We rely on information and
Transparency - with the energy demand certification of buildings, which also
Information on energy consumption includes, ecological rent index
and a network of counseling centers. We have also described the energy chapter (see. B. 5. Affordable heat and electricity for
all). For new buildings we want to nearly zero energy standard
pretend, but the focus is on the inventory. Here are particularly
asked private equity backers, so that we are also the right incentives. The rehabilitation rate is by target groups
Increase funding and planning certainty to 3%. The energetic modernization must be paid and the costs be fairly distributed - between owners, tenants and the State. Just
so the necessary investments to socially responsible
become. For this purpose we want the KfW Building Rehabilitation Programme
equip and stabilize with 2 billion euros annually. In addition, we want to set up the power saving funds in the amount of 3 billion euros annually, with which we particularly measures in districts with many
want to encourage low-income households. The extent to which
tax incentives for private home owners makes sense to re-
be explored. Social hardship to a climate subsidy
are collected for housing allowance and a climate bonus on the cost of accommodation. This overall strategy we are creating

269

Time for the green transformation

the energy transition in the building stock, trigger an investment offensive and create jobs.

2. Develop the green city

Our policy on the ground

We develop our cities continue - to places for a diverse
and sustainable cooperation, with short distances and many green spaces, with heterogeneous districts, cultural venues and lively city centers. There are living and design rooms
all citizens are, in which children, but also
Old or people can move freely with disabilities.
Green cities are colorful, creative, active - and for everyone. Therefore, we get public open spaces and create more space for
People and initiatives that spot for a liveable city
Insert. Integrated urban development is the core of green urban policies and is a prerequisite for a wide cooperation. In
urban planning should inform residents earlier
be authentic and involved. Young people need
Here specific programs and speeches to be involved in the planning processes. For this we change the construction and
Planning Law and establish programs to appropriate conditions. We also want to raise the funds for urban development, in particular for the programs Socially Integrative City, urban redevelopment and preservation medium. Because these programs are in 40
Years an important instrument for renewal of our cities to
the envy of many countries. The "National Urban Development Policy" initiative we want to revive and develop. The
Funding from the European Structural Funds are increasingly from 2014 on
the ecological and social urban development are used.
Green Cities thrive on diversity in the neighborhoods. For this, we strengthen the purposes of the Socially Integrative City, the permanent participation in today disadvantaged neighborhoods. We need mandatory
Cooperation between the different policy areas. In addition to structural measures to activities such as networking,
Education and citizenship are promoted. We also link new development to the creation of affordable housing. We want the legal mandate of the federal

270

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Our policy on the ground

Supervisory Authority for Real Estate Management new rules. If brownfields,
how old barracks sold, are sustainable and
City political factors into account, not only the
Highest bid counts. Even the ground lease should be used more frequently, for example in relation to the sale.
Green Cities are cities citizens. They need economic diversity
and ownership diversity. We want to strengthen the owner-operated retail as an important element vibrant inner cities. Also Kleinund medium enterprises in urban areas suffer from exploding
Commercial rents. The increase we want on one of the farms
limit economically acceptable level and for different
Consider measures.
Green Cities are also the right place for climate protection. For this, we strengthen the inner cities, minimize land consumption
in the countryside and urban density and green combine with city
City nature with Planning and funding programs. With our concept of energetic neighborhood redevelopment, which by the
Energy Saving Fund is financed, the municipalities can a cautious urban renewal and the coordination of investments
transfer it to the demand for housing and urban development. Bad investments can be avoided and costs reduced. A decentralized
Energy supply and efficient control systems are planned
and built. But we also strengthen the incentives, enhanced environmentally
to use sustainable building materials and maintain the building culture and urban quality of life and develop. An important
Object is doing the energetic and functional modernization of the municipal infrastructure, in which the adaptation and
Retrofitting existing buildings and facilities overrides
Must have new building. This is in common with the citizens and
Develop citizens - transparent and at eye level.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

271

Time for the green transformation

3. More Green in rural areas

Our policy on the ground

Germany is characterized by a variety of different rural regions. You decide by their economic
Potentials, its landscape and its agricultural
Structures the character of our country. Unfortunately, the rural area in recent years has been increasingly neglected. The result is that more and more people and because of better educational, vocational and livelihood opportunities in the big cities
Agglomerations draw and those who remain, still, on average,
age. Particularly for the less-favored regions lacking concepts for sustainable development, and a more stringent
Structural change in agriculture changed the look of our villages heavily. Therefore, we need to align the existing funding instruments better to these challenges and ensure that the land does not become mere objects of speculation
become.
It is clear that we have to change together with the local people, the environment, because rural areas are
can evolve independently. We want to help them better regional networking and regional economic cycles with regional processing, refining and
Build marketing. We therefore provide incentives for inter-municipal cooperation and eliminate existing legal uncertainties and fiscal obstacles. Even the nature tourism
provides in connection with the preservation of the cultural landscape and the
Promotion of organic farming new perspectives and we want
ensure that the citizens can better participate in the energy turnaround. For this purpose, we support citizens networks and bioenergy villages for regional power supply.
We want to bring life back into the centers of villages and small towns, because short ways to all generations are also on
the country possible: need instead of a supermarket for the region
We many small shops in the town centers. Where necessary we support
it also mobile supply systems or village shop concepts
more than just retail operate, but offer additional services. The unbridled construction on a greenfield site
We want to stop. We also carry a demography check

272

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Our policy on the ground

for estimating the local population development and a
Mandatory follow-up costs before consideration of designating new
Construction areas a. But we must also better while the municipalities
support, easily accessible for young people and care
To provide educational services. And so there are plenty of homes for old people, we support age-appropriate modifications by a targeted promotion, improved information
and legal changes.
In health care, we are in rural areas
especially before major challenges. They must be better aligned to the needs of older people - less deals and other ways. We need better networking
and another division of tasks. The nurses play
a key role. They should take more responsibility
be able. Finally, we need flexible forms of care such as
Fahrdienste or mobile dental team, the organization and implementation of telemedicine services and the expansion of outpatient and residential care services as an overarching mobile
Care services and sufficient prevention and outreach
for people with problematic use patterns of legal and
illegal drugs.
Our policy for rural development should also strengthen the civil society. Racism, homophobia and other forms of discrimination, there are unfortunately too often and in some villages propel Nazis
fully up to mischief. Where others prefer to remain silent, we speak to the facts and to support the civil society
Involvement of citizens on the spot by a diverse range of cultural, educational and participation opportunities such as
e.g. self-administered youth centers and other alternative projects
as germ cells of social change.
We support the municipalities, a well-functioning
Provide infrastructure. In networks and transport policy
Chapter, we describe the right solutions for the Internet
and public transport, so that even people who are not
Have car, will find assorted possibilities of life.
If the under-utilization of water and wastewater networks for
Problem is, we prefer decentralized and sustainable solutions.

273

Time for the green transformation

Also exemptions from mandatory connection and use must
be possible for remote units.
At national level, we want more funds from the European Structural Fund for Rural Development
provide. Also the integrated fund must use the
Application come to have flexible and needs-based funding opportunities in the regions. The aim must be a integrated rural development with the participation of citizens
and its citizens.

4. strengthen municipal capacity

Our policy on the ground

Our demands on municipalities are high because we want
good for all institutions. Paving the way for the participation in society of people are made on site. But the financial
Situation is dramatic in some cases. The revenues have plummeted during the crisis and many have not recovered to this day. Rising social expenditures lead to additional costs for the local budgets. This all leads to more and more debt and curtailing the
To act massively.
In many communities, people are therefore in the form
high fees, ailing infrastructure and by the loss
Quality of life unduly burdened. But the help of the federal government
and countries remains from many places. Instead, they announce other objects and transferred to municipalities the responsibility,
without the corresponding resources to provide. We stand for the fair treatment of the cities and towns. Additional
Tasks must always be covered by additional resources. That
Concomitant financing must be anchored at the federal level at last. In addition, the federal government needs to local authorities in the
Relieve social spending noticeably. We raise this in a first
Step the federal share of the cost of accommodation on 35%, in
a second to 37.7%. We relieve the municipalities to
1 billion euros. We also want the existing integration assistance
replace through a participatory performance law and proportionate to the Bund
participate in the financing. A corresponding reform of integration assistance must be the objectives of the UN CRPD

274

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Our policy on the ground

promote and initiate a structural change towards strengthening
Self-determination and participation. Tenders and performance forms
it applies align and equip this. The development of the
inclusive community can not and must not alone task and
Be compulsory performance of municipalities. Costs that arise from a participatory law may not, completely on state and local governments
be passed.
The money is also missing for important investment - be it in new
Future projects such as education and energy, it was for much needed renovations. Empty coffers and one-sided competition guidelines for municipal companies increase the pressure on the
Municipalities to privatize their services. Once again tried
the European Commission with the support of black and yellow central
Areas of public services such as water and sanitation
to cut through high volumes at Stadtwerke, special-purpose associations and inter-municipal cooperation. But often privatizations have created than solved more problems. Often this means
To privatize profits and socialize losses to, because that
Risk ultimately bears the general public. Privatizations are only in
Exceptional case subject to harsh conditions and must make sense
become.
We Greens are in favor of strengthening and development of reliable and high-quality public goods and institutions. We know how important it is that governance capacity of municipalities, transparency and democratic control
ensure when it comes to the future of public services.
We support cities and towns again their achievements
wish to provide yourself. For this purpose, we want to secure the economic activity of communities and promote inter-municipal cooperation. A route can also be the formation of regional groups
be, in which the core city with the surrounding districts constitutes a gebietskörperschaftliche unit.
Tasks of general interest from the water supply to the
Waste disposal have often been converted in recent years in private law companies in municipal ownership or participation of private capital. Thereby, the local political principles of transparency and monitoring by the
Council eroded. A public participation is in

275

Time for the green transformation

key areas of general interest practically impossible. We therefore call for a public board meetings and
Information obligations and municipal public companies.
Although municipalities can generally align their procurement according to ecological and social criteria procurement practice these legal options often draws from. The decision often still falls for the cheapest offer, although
it away when viewed over the entire life cycle
more economical alternatives exist. Let us therefore consider how
Dumping offers can be automatically and legally excluded from the procurement procedure.
The financial position of local authorities must be improved as a whole. The most important measure is a community financial reform,
a task-specific funding of local authorities in the Basic Law ensures. We call for the preservation of the business tax,
Development of a municipal business tax and
Reform of land tax. We have discussed a model, according to
the property tax is to be calculated according to the current, lump-market values. Guard rails are for us GREEN: a
constitutionally solid, equitable taxation without ecological disincentives. The assessment rate law lies with the municipalities.

5. encourage regions demand and sustainable

Our policy on the ground

We stand for a policy of solidarity, the weakened structures
strengthens and backward regions supported, newly
establish. In East Germany, a lot has been moved. The people there have a difficult transformation process
Achieved great things. But the economic financial strength continues to
still lower than in the old countries. Solidary support will long be necessary, but the Solidarity Pact II runs
2019. We believe that following a promotion of municipalities in structurally weak regions needed the right way
is. All municipalities are major challenges in the wake of
Debt brake into the house. The crisis has been particularly structurally weak regions that already due to demographic
Change under considerable pressure are hit hard. Many this

276

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

these municipalities in the new, but also in the old Länder
alone will not solve these problems. Especially when old debt repayment they need help.
East Germany is next to various regions in the west - also
and especially in the rural areas - coverage of the
diverse effects of demographic trends
affected and will have to deal with these. These processes take place in
Accelerates from East and in significant orders of magnitude. Next
the political will, in the rural areas a good life
allow to herein are economically intelligent solutions
asked. Decentralization and subsidiarity are important for us
Basic principles.
We will make the current funding structure also overlooking sustainability criteria to the test. The municipalities, regions and countries, we encourage, fair trade and ecological
To purchase products. With the help of subsidies and regional funds
can work together the various actors of a region and increase the scope of their region together. The
Value we want to keep in the region; for example through a regional seal. The sustainable management and maintenance of our diverse cultural landscape is important for the people in the region.
Tourism also benefited and should contribute
afford to do so.

6. Cooperative Federalism

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Our policy on the ground

We are strengthening the cooperation between the federal levels,
without the freedom of choice of the state and local governments to curtail. The opposite is the case. Only through partnership and cooperation, the policies are properly sited their task and make the realities of life of the people positively. The
Interest payments on the accumulated debt burden and countries
Municipalities to a considerable extent. We want a old debt redemption fund relief, so that all have the chance
Debt brake einzuhalten.Die negotiations on the financial relations between the federal, state and local authorities are tricky.
The current allocation of resources like a confusing FLI

277

Time for the green transformation

prevents ckenteppich and this entanglement of revenue sources
a sensible overcoming the structural financing gap
the municipalities. We want to combine the restructuring of the countries financial compensation for the period after 2019 with a Federalism Reform III. In it, we are also the other financial flows between
Include federal and state governments as well as the financial situation of the municipalities. We also want to ensure that the financial equalization by neediness, fair incentive compatible, and
is embodied in solidarity. Efforts for additional revenue,
Efficiency and savings must be worthwhile for all states. One thing is for us already noticed: The Basic Law has again
possible agreed actions of federal, state and local authorities. We are committed for a long time for this one, the ban on cooperation
abolish in education and to expand the possibilities for cooperation in science. The states and municipalities
simply lack the financial means to the general government challenges for the necessary educational awakening with good
To cope with all-day schools. It is time to allow more cooperation.

Who chooses GREEN ...
• ensures affordable and climate-friendly living.
• developed cities, towns and rural areas and green
liveable.
• are the municipalities back their capacity to act.

Our policy on the ground

• promotes sustainable and regions as needed.
• represents a cooperative federalism.

278

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Key projects
Affordable Housing permit - social rent law,
welfare-oriented housing construction and energy
Think modernization together
In our cities are rapidly rising rents to a growing problem. On the other hand we want to proceed and stop the displacement of people from their neighborhoods. We will the
limit regular increase in the local comparative rent stronger. In housing shortage we want to enable limits on re-letting rents. Countries we support better
while social housing. Rent increases through modernization we reduce to a maximum of 9% and limiting it to the
Removal of barriers and the energy modernization. Reduce the housing benefit with targeted support and a climate subsidy
we the cost of energy from modernization. So we are creating quality housing and affordable homes that are fit for
the energy turnaround.

Make cities and towns for the future -
give new impetus to the urban development

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Our policy on the ground

The programs of urban development were cut back sharply,
although many countries envy us for it. Because so municipalities can invest in order to expand their infrastructure. That is why we want to increase the funding for this program again gradually. We take Social City particularly the program
to strengthen socially disadvantaged neighborhoods and promoting
Urban renewal in municipalities with vacant housing and brownfield sites into view. We also want to include the energetic neighborhood redevelopment. Thus, the municipalities get more freedom
and flexibility in the use of funds. So that we can better align the infrastructure of our cities on participation and the energy turnaround.

279

Time for the green transformation

The municipal fi nances strengthen - support
by the federal government at the cost of accommodation

Our policy on the ground

The financial situation of many municipalities is so dramatic that locally there is no leeway. Nevertheless, we must everywhere
the participation of all allow. For this we create a fair treatment of the cities and towns by additional future
Tasks the federal government for the municipalities always by additional
Resources have to be covered by the federal government. We also relieve
the municipalities in the current cost of rent of ALGII-recipients. For the federal government should continue to EUR 1 billion additional
provide. So we support the municipalities in implementing an equitable and solidary social policy.

280

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

R. Our shared Europe

The European Union is much more than just a common economic and monetary area. The EU of 28 member states is place
the freedom and diversity, peace and democracy. The EU
has centuries-old antagonisms overcome, and a historically
created unique intra-European peace. That's why she has
last year rightly awarded the Nobel Peace Price.
Without a doubt we can and must criticize facing the EU much and you can also improve much. But European policy finds
not only in distant Brussels, but starts with the local politics and permeates all policy areas from environment to
Consumer Rights. European policy is domestic politics and the federal election thus also an important decision on the future
Europe. To the unfinished European project more equitable social
and continue building sustainable, it needs the right political
Majorities. The EU currently is in a deep identity crisis, but
Europe is our future. We create it together.
Many citizens, also in Germany, does not have
more the expectation that the EU will automatically present prosperity and
Provides security in a globalized world. Frequently push politicians to blame the Brussels Commission, so
some black and yellow politicians awaken too happy to get the impression that it would take only a German Europe or our country
even better alone should continue to solve all the problems.
Still others, such as Angela Merkel aim to reinforce the national level and would prefer everything in backrooms among
the 28 heads of state and head of government inside ausdealen.
But we know as well as the vast majority of Federal citizens in society that it is the return to national initiatives can only be sold extreme social, economic and
political risks are. We say 'yes' to Europe and put us
favor of a Europe of the citizens and we Bürger.Mischen an us
for a democratic Europe! We Greens put on a joint

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

281

Our common Europe

Why Europe is our future

Our common Europe

Time for the green transformation

Sames Europe in which parliaments and European civil society
transparent and actively co-decide, because without democracy
Legitimacy is not a political decision in the long run unsustainable.
We want the EU both inside and outside its borders for
credible advocate for the civil and human rights and the
Peace is. This remains for Europe in the 21st century
a historic commitment.
We are committed to a Europe of solidarity! We GREEN
make us strong for a viable EU who confidently confronts the global actors on the financial markets.
The order also and especially the young people in Southern Europe, for which the financial crisis has become a real disaster,
participation in the achievements of the European welfare state
procured.
We are fighting for a just Europe! The unilateral and non-solidarity austerity policies under the leadership of the black-yellow government has led to the economic crisis in the
Southern European countries additionally exacerbated. Unemployment
growing - especially among youth - unbearable and more and more people are driven into poverty and insecurity. Health care in Greece collapses. One
green embossed federal government will not accept that on the
Backs of the poorest people will be saved.
And we create a European future! We want GREEN
use the upcoming federal election to the change in policy also
advance in Europe. The full deselecting Black Yellow is an important step to begin a new phase of European integration, bringing together the more what
can only be provided together European, without forgetting subsidiarity. We want to make the EU a pioneer in a peaceful neighborhood, the climate and the sustainable
Economies, and its pioneering role in terms of equality
expand between women and men. We are fighting with all
Citizens together to ensure that it just again
goes on in Germany, Europe and the world.

282

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Around Europe the world does not stand still. But it also turns
not as much as I used to Europe. Europe's role in the world
changes. Europe needs to find his new responsibility. This
applies: Europe wins together - or lose. In times of globalization, in the face of limited resources and a climate catastrophe, the extent of which has become increasingly clear, can no European
National government solve the problems single-handedly. This just goes together - with the EU and with strong democratic European
Institutions.
Economically, Germany benefits from a strong EU.
60% of German exports go to other EU member states.
Without the strength of the internal market, the German competitiveness would also be internationally to secure barely. Even from economic self-interest may therefore Europe Southern Germany
Do not suspend member countries. But the role as the largest and
economically strongest EU member state is Germany politically
justice in any way. Since the beginning of the financial and sovereign debt crisis blocked or delayed Chancellor Merkel necessary
Reform steps and sat on one side of "Save, save and again
save "instead of a balance in a policy of solidity, solidarity
and to find sustainability. Thus it has exacerbated the crisis and
the financial risks of European taxpayers multiplied.
We advertise GREEN instead for a European Germany in an economic and Solidarunion. We have
in the chapter "Not Business as Usual" already described in detail.
Furthermore, the EU needs a stronger budget, which the
wearing growing responsibilities of the accounting Union. We need a
clear priorities, which strengthens the spending in the areas with a European added value. We do not want that agroindustrial
Large companies or a senseless project as the ITER fusion reactor
are subsidized with billions, while an increasing number of small farms have to give up or for the Erasmus program
insufficient funds are available. For the purposes of budgetary subsidiarity, the EU must set their priorities where
You can spend money better and more efficiently than the individual

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

283

Our common Europe

1. For a European Germany

Our common Europe

Time for the green transformation

Member States. The share capital has expanded considerably
and untransparent discount schemes to be abolished. The
Member States must fulfill their commitments and the EU with
the respective agents cater to the worsening
To finish payment crisis and the threat of defaults on the
EU funding should be avoided.
Schengen and freedom of travel related are central
Cornerstone of the EU and have in front of populist propaganda
are protected by the black-yellow coalition. Member States may not restrict unilaterally the freedom of travel. Us
Greens want that in reintroduction of border controls
Schengen area remains a last resort and should only be jointly decided and verified at European level; enhanced
Immigration is definitely no reason for us for the closure of the
Internal borders. Equally important to us is to safeguard the free movement of workers within the EU. We do not with the black and yellow populism against people from Central Europe. We have
especially discrimination against Roma back. All EU citizens, regardless of their origin or ethnicity, should continue to be the
Have opportunity to seek work in another EU country work.
Challenges such as massive poverty and unemployment, discrimination or corruption, we need a common European basis and in
Cooperation with the relevant national and regional
Tackle actors to take central rights of Union citizens
circumcised.
Contrary to the position of other parties is not finished for us Greens, the enlargement of the European Union. We stand
on the enlargement of the Thessaloniki agenda and want all states
integrating the Western Balkans without changing their borders in the EU. The enlargement policy is a success story for us
- Even if mistakes were made in the past. That is why we support the demand that the accession of each
Country depending on the concrete progress in the accession process
is made. Thus, the enlargement policy is an instrument for peace and stability, but also for the rule of law, civil liberties, democracy, social standards and environmental protection on the continent of Europe.
Partners in this process are mainly the civil society
and progressive actors that are even more support

284

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

have to. The new method can in the Western Balkans
but cause just those states that during the wars
to suffer the last decade of the 20th century most
had, yet most are away from joining the EU. Therefore, we want to establish new transition process, not new
creating insurmountable limits in the middle of the region.
The European Union must, 50 years after the relevant
Association Agreement, finally provide new impetus to the accession negotiations with Turkey. These must be fair, results-oriented and conducted on an equal footing. For us are here
Democracy and human rights on the ground in the foreground. In the
Turkey, there are still shortcomings, such in the case of freedom of the press,
Women's rights and protection of minorities. However, just a serious accession process promises the most successful reform. Both
there must be no compromising existing criteria. The aim of
Negotiations is accession, as soon as these criteria are met. Us
do not want to become dependent on religious identities of belonging to the EU. Nevertheless, the EU must in the design its neighborhood policy to become more active. Even the people in
the countries of the EU to the east and in the Mediterranean region must be allowed a dignified life in a democratic constitutional state. The democratic reform efforts in North Africa
and the Arab world should the European Union within the framework
its neighborhood policy support. We want that
Germany for the facilitation of visas, the market access and labor migration begins and exchanges in
the fields of education, sports and culture with this region promotes.
The liberalization of European and German visa policy
a crucial key for encouraging reforms and social change outside the European Union. Therefore put
We also in the countries of the EU to the east for further support democratic reform efforts and want
Germany within the framework of the EU for the general review
the visa requirement of individual states strongly and makes particularly to support that visa requirements for people from the
Eastern Partnership countries, Russia, Kosovo and Turkey will be canceled quickly. Basically, we are a strong
common European foreign and human rights policies.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

285

Our common Europe

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Time for the green transformation

Our common Europe

2. For a democratic Europe
Our response to the "Europe of national governments" is
a strengthened European democracy whose way transparent and
is elaborated with the citizens. The European
Democracy is often described as being composed of only one
Democratic deficit. This caricature also lives by the polemics of those who what goes wrong for all regularly "Europe" responsibility to push, while this indeed de facto never happen without the cooperation of nation states. But there are actually
Democratic deficits. One is - at the national level; it is the non-transparent European policy of governments that are trying to evade parliamentary scrutiny. The Bundestag has here, however - in particular green operation - already
many improvements enforced. A second democratic deficit
arises from the just operated by the federal government intergovernmental approach to more European cooperation, which the European Parliament is brought to its supervisory responsibility. The institutionalization of the Euro Group
at the expense of democratic institutions acting in this direction.
The Community method must be granted priority over the intergovernmental action. As in the past
it may be necessary to develop a temporary different speeds of integration in individual cases. It is
important that the institutions and rules of Community law
the framework of cooperation.
Our green strategy for more democracy in the EU relies on
a strong alliance of parliaments at all levels - and to the active
Intervention of Europeans. That's why we strongly from the beginning of the introduction of the European Citizens' Initiative
made. We want to further strengthen and develop the medium in the direction of a European referendum. In the institutional development we are building a public
European Convention on the Future of the EU. But he may not lead to
Expert Circle degenerated. Instead, should chaired
the European Parliament and representatives of EU Commission representatives, the national parliaments and governments,
Civil society and social partners meet in order to

286

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Constitution of the European Union from the viewpoint of
more effective and wider legitimate operation of particular
institutional issues as well as in the economic, budgetary,
Finance, Social and democracy to develop. The Convention must
in its composition of the participants, the Company
reflect.
To the participation of European citizens at all
to ensure political levels, we intend to expand citizenship. We advocate that all EU citizens the
Get right to vote in the Member State in which they habitually
Have residence, and not only for local councils and
the European Parliament, but also at regional and national
Elections if they have been living for five years there.
The European Parliament should finally be given the right to propose their own legislative initiatives and to select the / the EU Commission President. So it is the central and Debate
And must be full Entscheidungsort European politics
Co-decision rights obtained in all policy areas. If the
EU more powers to obtain that needs to be accompanied with more control rights for the European Parliament. Where the ECB
Banking is active, the democratic accountability of the ECB to the European Parliament needs to be increased. That
Parliament must have a say in the emergency response
receive and economic governance.
The parties will in future nominate at European elections leading candidates, under which after the election in accordance with their
Result of / the EU Commission President to be elected. Us
come therefore for greater personalization of the European elections
on. In addition to the nationally specific candidates
why should some of the deputies are elected on transnational lists. Even strong rules need to be introduced, the
increase the transparency of European institutions and
Contain large influence of corporate lobby in Brussels.
For a democratic Europe, however, involves more than reforms of the Functioning of the European Union. Far too often, the
EU acts like a paper tiger if human rights were violated in member countries and about the freedom of the press systematically
restricted or Roma were discriminated against for the worst. The

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

287

Our common Europe

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Our common Europe

Time for the green transformation

Commission should therefore more often the existing possibilities
use to freeze funds, if member countries against elementary values ​​of the Union violated. In addition, this possibility should
be extended to all parts of the Union budget.
Instead upgrade the EU's external borders and on and tacitly tolerate that every year thousands of refugees
drowning the road to the EU in the Mediterranean, we want to align our foreign and development policy action more on the
social, economic and environmental causes of
Combat flight and expulsion. Approximately through simplification
of financial transfers ("remittances") and the possibility of longer stay in the country of the economic
Positively influence the situation on the spot, without having to take legal action in residence purchase. We want a
establish fair asylum system and allow legal immigration.
Frontex does not comply with this. We therefore call for an institutional beginning. We want a common EU border policy,
which safeguards the legal norms of Europe, the human rights
guarantees the right to asylum interspersed, refugees rescues from distress and is controlled by the European Palament. Costly and from data and human rights reasons most
serious proposals as Eurosur and "smart borders" that the
Cementing the EU foreclosure, we reject also. Us
also want to abolish the scheme, according to the refugees only in
those EU countries can be taken, where
they arrived the first thing (Dublin II agreement). Refugees
to decide for themselves where they apply for asylum. In addition, need
we unified, high asylum standards in all member countries. Us
will initiate in Brussels a roadmap for an EU-wide solidarity asylum system, with the equally assume all Member States responsibility and the refugees to live in dignity in
Europe allows. It also needs a legal anchoring of the protection of environmental and climate refugees in the EU and
world, building on existing local and regional
Initiatives and decisions of the international community to
UN Ebene.Zu belongs to a democratic Europe a strong and
vibrant civil society. With a voluntary European Year
for all - for the young and for older people - we can provide a Euro-

288

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

strengthen pean civil society even further and take all of them.
We therefore call for a comprehensive development of a European
Voluntary Service for all generations, supported by civil society organizations, and a good financial basis by public funds.

With the German withdrawal decision, the risks of nuclear technology are not yet banned. The federal government must work for
Insert an EU-wide phase out nuclear power. It must use its powers to prevent the construction of new nuclear power plants,
and energy policy options show. While in the EU more
Nuclear power plants are operated, must apply to all mandatory safety standards at the level of Science and Technology
. apply The federal government has a duty to citizens and
Citizens in border construction projects of nuclear power plants in
To inform neighboring countries and represent objections of the population to neighboring countries.
The German energy policy should give environmentally-innovative impulses Europe. It must therefore also good in the pan-European
Energy landscape are integrated. For this we need a European energy infrastructure, a functioning emissions trading, an integrated European energy market with effective competition and a consistently low CO2 emissions
eluting European industrial policy. We advocate comprehensive European investment for the energetic use of sun
and wind and to promote energy efficiency and conservation
one, especially in the hard-hit by the euro crisis regions of southern Europe. With a European-driven energy policy we want at the same time sustainable employment fields
create. The large-scale subsidization of fossil
and nuclear energy must be ended. The German
Energy policy needs at European level in order to function,
and for the energy turnaround in the EU, we finally need a federal government that the restructuring of the energy sector at EU level
committed represents.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

289

Our common Europe

3. For a European energy policy

Time for the green transformation

Our common Europe

The EU Member States have in 2011 alone to import
paid by oil more than 400 billion US dollars. At the same time the
Ambition in the development of renewables and in increasing the
Energy efficiency vanished. In climate protection can range from a
European pioneer hardly be any question. The policy
EU, which decided on by her with aim not to exceed the threshold of 2 degrees global warming has long been a farce
degenerated. All risks in spite of holding a political majority
on of conservatives, socialists and liberals in the old energy mix
based on the high-risk technology nuclear and dirty coal
fixed.
Instead of running after the old concepts and lobby interests further, we want a Europe that builds on energy conservation, energy efficiency and renewable energies. So that we can
Environmental and conservation push Europe, energy poverty
cushion, be independent from expensive fossil fuels, create the necessary incentives for technological innovation and therefore new jobs in the context of our European
Green New Deal. In addition, a better coordination of European network structure is one way to compensate for the fluctuations of renewable energies. With business as usual, we will
but which does not create. That is why we are committed to a European Community for Renewable Energy (ERENE). In addition,
should the EU's neighboring countries, and in particular the
Candidate countries to be involved in the transformation of energy systems with. Also we want to in advance of the upcoming UNKlimagipfels 2013 in Warsaw the current target, the EU-wide
2020 to reduce CO2 emissions by 20%, at least 30%
increase. We also advocate the abolition of Euratom. As long as there is no majority in favor of the abolition of the Euratom Treaty
there, we are committed to a reform of Euratom and an overpass in the EUV to Euratom finally the democratic
To insinuate control.

290

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

One of the biggest scandals in Europe today is the rampant youth unemployment in many Member States. In Spain and Greece have over 50% of the most educated generation ever knew these countries, unemployed for a long time. On
European level, we have therefore used GREEN us for a Youth Guarantee, a job, apprenticeship or training offered by more than four months unemployment
get. Their realization - that is, in particular their financing - we can not but each country itself
left. For those who provide such a guarantee most
need are the fewest resources available. The newly established EU-funded special fund to be used in regions with very high youth unemployment, is a first step which
however, not sufficient. In solidarity with the Member States should
the fund to be maintained as long and possibly increased until the unemployment among the youth back significantly and permanently.
European unification basically lives from the people, regions and countries in Europe vouch for each other.
The basic principle of European solidarity and the common social protection comes to play a special role in the current crisis. Faced with a Europe-wide opening
Scissors between rich and poor is not enough, only at national
Rotating wheel! Europe suffers today Unterbietungswettbewerben
in wages, taxes and social standards.
That is why we want to introduce a social progress clause in EUPrimärrecht that a stronger balance compared to
Establishes fundamental freedoms of the market. We also want the
Reduce poverty gap, the income gap between the
Member States weaken and the wage differentials between
Women and men minimize. For a social Europe also has for us common minimum social standards, as
a minimum wage and basic social security, which are based on each country's GDP, and the right to good health care. Especially in times where more and more people during their working lives in different EU member states

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

291

Our common Europe

4. For a social Europe of the citizens

Time for the green transformation

operate, we want an improved accounting of pension and
Reach unemployment claims and ensure that a good
Health care is not only less a privilege.
We stand for a different - a fair - European tax policy that restrains the tax competition within Europe and to prevent tax avoidance, tax evasion and dumping.
We have households "Better in the chapter - Ecologically, justice
and economically rational: the green tax policies "very closely
described.
Also in view of the crisis in the euro countries, we want a
fundamental departure from the course of the Merkel government, the only
more injustice leads. What we want to do differently, have
we "economies Anders - overcome the crisis" in the chapter very
accurately described. So could unsustainable economic
Developments in the form of a so-called boom or the
Fundamentals of social cohesion threatening to recession
mutual advantage be alleviated. Unlike the federal government, we are in Europe towards a further development of innovative models open and bring new concepts to the defense of
Crisis danger along the way.

Our common Europe

5. For decisions at the right level
More courage to Europe means to us, decided to go ahead at the EU level, where joint action is necessary and useful.
More Europe does not mean for us but that the EU or even in Brussels
Future to take care of everything. We want that plane decides that at the particular challenge best citizen
and with the highest legitimacy can act. A strong Europe
stands for us neither compete nor capable of acting contrary to municipalities, regions, (federal) countries and nation-states. It is rather important that the different
Collaborate levels. This means in practice that the European institutions much stronger and earlier than previously should involve all political levels through consultation and impact rights in their own legislation. The same applies to the national level,
which in many cases European rules in the nation-state

292

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Legislation implemented and the criteria for the award of
EU funds also determined. This also means that transfer of powers is not a one-way street. Just as it is useful in many areas
is to transfer more sovereignty to Europe, so can some areas better regulated nationally, regionally or locally. Therefore,
We basically for returning competences to lower levels, if it objectively seem sensible - also belongs to the
Principle of subsidiarity.

Who chooses GREEN ...
• fight with us for a united Europe and a European Youth Guarantee.
• is responsible for ensuring that for the Western Balkans and Turkey
credible prospect of accession is maintained.
• deepen the democratic Europe, the citizens and the
Can participate in the citizens and the European Parliament
plays a strong role.
• say yes to a Europe of renewable energies and the
Climate protection.
• advocates for better protection of refugees and
Migrants and ensure that human rights to the
EU's external borders are protected.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

293

Our common Europe

• get a policy that no German Europe but a
European Germany wants.

Time for the green transformation

Key projects
For a democratic and citizen-friendly Europe -
Develop a European Citizens' Initiative and
Convened the European Convention
The European Union has democratic pent-up demand. We want the dialogue in and through Europe and our common future
strengthen. These include a more intensive participation of citizens
and citizens and a broad public debate in Europe. Major European issues should not in backrooms of
national leaders will ausgeklüngelt. Therefore, we are committed to strengthening the European Parliament
and the national parliaments a. For this we require a Europeanized and personalized election campaign to the European Parliament as well as a greater say of citizens. In addition, we intend to expand the European Citizens' Initiative
and medium term towards a European referendum
evolve. As a further step we want in a public, parliamentary embossed European Convention with the participation of civil society and social partners under the leadership
the European Parliament proposals for the further development of
EU discuss.

Our common Europe

For a united Europe - tax avoidance and
Fraud with a European tax pact
fight
To which Europe widening gap between rich and poor
it is not enough just nationally, but it is important to respond at European level. For a more social Europe requires not only solidarity between the regions, but above all measures to ensure that
Financially strong can not pass with the help of the free internal market from the common solidarity. Through fiscal dumping
and tax evasion is the public purse in Europe each year
lost about one trillion euros. We want to put an end to the

294

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Undercutting of wages, taxes and sociality len standards. We need common European rules, as
minimum social standards, a social progress clause and a
European tax pact. The control pact consists of a EU-wide
coordinated capital levy and a common tax base and a minimum rate for corporate taxation and a minimum rate of corporation. The central task is also Europe's tax havens to close finally.
We also drive the taxation of resources, eg by a
Raising the energy taxation, progress.

For a human Europe - solidarity
Establish asylum policy in all the Member States

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

295

Our common Europe

The European refugee and asylum policy is repressive, divisive and geared towards foreclosure. The marshalling yard and
the unilateral responsibility for European refugees at the expense of Greece and other EU Mediterranean countries, with the
the Dublin system were cemented, lead to different
Standards and must therefore be stopped. We want
Germany for Europe to lead by example is: with the
immediate abolition of detention for refugees in Dublin
Germany, with a stop of deportation of refugees in
EU countries where they live in appalling conditions and
like criminals be locked in closed accommodations, with the
solidary reception of asylum seekers from the European
Refugee strongholds and with greater participation in the EU resettlement program. We are also in Brussels a
Roadmap for an EU-wide solidarity Asylum System initiate with
equally assume all the Member States of responsibility and the refugees permits a life of dignity throughout Europe.

Time for the green transformation

S. Our One World

Our One World

As we peace and human rights, freedom
can strengthen and global justice
The focus of our international policy is the green
Man and not the state. Whether climate crisis or resources crisis if
Hunger or financial crisis, whether failing states or upgrade.
None of these issues, together with the consequent dangers may
be tackled today by one country alone. Peace, justice, freedom and the protection of global public goods are all people equally and can only be achieved together. The respect for human rights and the prevention of serious human rights violations have for
we have a special priority.
Still the goods of the earth and the prosperity are extremely
unequally distributed. Still a part of humanity lives at the expense of the other. Still, hundreds of people die every day in
armed conflicts worldwide. The brutal civil war in Syria
is already almost disappeared from the public consciousness, only
pretty Violence and confrontation in the Congo, in Central Africa, in Iraq or Libya. Injustice, exploitation, war,
Hunger, a brutal environmental destruction and devastating consequences of
Climate catastrophe, especially for the poorest regions and especially
to the detriment of women - all of this is by no means the past
on, but shapes the present. Rich and poor drift world
dramatically apart. We want a fairer distribution of
Achieve wealth in the world. We in the industrialized countries have to fulfill our responsibilities and stop on
Living expense of the poor. The change we have in common with
our agency partners to tackle. Think global - locally
act: Without the participation of the citizens global justice can not be realized. That is why we want to raise awareness of global cooperation through development policy
Strengthen education and municipal North-South partnerships. This
applies it to the world population growth, urbanization and a rapid

296

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

sant growing global middle class and its many ramifications
consumerist lifestyles to respond worldwide. We would like,
that the international community with those challenges
shared but differentiated responsibilities is concerned. It
at stake is nothing less than a fundamental transformation in the
World economy to a new survey of the relationship between economy and ecology, market-driven dynamics and political
Regulation of resource-efficient production and equitable
Distribution between the sexes. It is a "great transformation".
The fall of authoritarian regimes in North Africa, the protest against tyrannies, particularly in the Arab world and Hungerund natural disasters in countries of fragile statehood force
German and European politics to a fundamental questioning of their previous principles. Often were economic
Interests and supposed stability before promoting defined as an important goal of democracy and human rights, and for that
also alliances with authoritarian regimes were discussed. That
Schwarz-Gelb this policy with arms sales to Saudi Arabia
and other authoritarian states continues, is as scandalous as irresponsible. And it's the opposite of a values-based foreign and security policy that the on the protection and promotion
Human rights based.
The aim is to strengthen civil conflicts, to tackle the real causes of violence. Peaceful and civilian
Means always take precedence over military for us. Our peace policy core beliefs are based on the strengthening
the right place at the right of the strongest, to coping
crises through strengthened United Nations and to the non-violent resolution of conflicts. Our compass is peace and the
Protection of human rights.
We want that Germany will meet as a reliable actor of his global responsibilities. New forms of international cooperation with States and the increasingly internationally networked civil society we want to strengthen at all levels. Therefore
must also state and local governments in carrying out their
Responsibility more support. Transnational active
Companies need integrated into the global transformation

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

297

Our One World

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Time for the green transformation

and through clear rules for compliance with social, environmental and
human rights standards are committed. Such rules
can no longer just national thought, but must in a
globalized economy are also anchored globally. We oppose a policy of renationalisation of foreign and
Development policy as currently operates Schwarz-Gelb. The Federal Government is unilaterally rather than on short-term national interests
on a long-term justice in globalization, in the
everyone can participate equally and benefit of all.
This means for us, now the conditions for a future
create, reality in the fair world trade, better climate and strong democratic international institutions.
That is why we are committed to a climate-neutral and resource-efficient economy, without which there can be no promise of prosperity for all. That is why we are helping to organize the world trade fair. And that's why we strengthen and enhance
our development cooperation.
We will intervene for global justice and the
Protection of universal human rights, explicitly the rights
women include, for strengthening civilian crisis prevention
and conflict resolution and against arms exports. No one should live at the expense of others, all people have the right to
Peace, development, freedom and dignity. This is what we
global justice and participation of all.

Our One World

1. The Great Transformation: A World
is on its way
We want to shape globalization - political, ecological and
socially. The financial and climate crises have once again the dramatic excesses of global capitalism with unregulated
Markets disclosed. We need a social-ecological transformation, through our carbon-based economy
transformed into a more resource efficient economy Sustainability
becomes. For this we need to recover the primacy of politics over unregulated markets. Markets need rules, so that they serve the common good. Only in this way prosperity is for the growing world

298

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

population possible and does not lead to economic growth
Collapse. The consequences of climate change are already affecting large portions of the world's population. The effects are dramatic in part: By changing the climatic conditions and
the increase in natural disasters not only creates significant
material damage - people forced to flee, development opportunities are destroyed and violated human rights. As a developed country
we have decided to go ahead and reduce our greenhouse gas emissions by 2050 by at least 80 to 95% compared to 1990 levels. To the emerging and developing countries in their efforts to adapt to climate change and to protect
to support the climate, we want technology transfer and the
make necessary expertise available. The cost of adapting to climate change must be distributed fairly. The
Green Climate Fund (GKF) is here and in helping to
CO2 reduction play a decisive role. Given
estimated by the IPCC 150 million climate refugees in the year 2050, we occur as part of an external climate policy
for more climate justice a.
Resource wealth in a country is not the resource curse for
its population. The exploitation of resources is all too often with
massive human rights violations and environmental pollution
accompanied. Therefore, we must in times of dwindling resources
and rethink the resulting conflicts anywhere in the world
and drastically reduce our consumption of raw materials - in Germany and internationally. We are committed to binding social, environmental and human rights standards in mining, processing and trading of raw materials as well as for transparency in
Commodity range.
We need a reorientation of international trade policy by environmental and social standards. Bilateral free trade agreements, as EU currently with different countries
negotiated or aspires to be in the future so designed,
that they strengthen development and human rights. Basically,
we strive for a multilateral trade system. Concretely, this means, for example, abolish the EU export subsidies and
to make the EU's agricultural policy so that if by dumping prices
Food markets are not ruined in developing countries

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

299

Our One World

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Our One World

Time for the green transformation

the. At the same time need products from developing countries a
non-discriminatory access to the European market. This means
a reconsideration of the EU fishing agreements on environmental and social impacts and to renegotiate. We need international agreements and at fair prices for agricultural products
Commodities lead, as well as a policy of local production
Promoting goods in developing countries. This trade policy
Objectives we also support through sustainable and fair public procurement policy. For global tax justice and
the financing of public goods we are working on tax havens
to close and to force global operating companies, there
To pay taxes, where they produce and make profit.
Forest protection in developing and emerging countries is not
only climate protection but also securing the livelihoods
local populations. Therefore, we are committed to agreeing on a global program to stop the degradation and
Destruction of forests in developing and emerging countries as well as the ratification and implementation of ILO Convention 169 to
Strengthening an indigenous peoples' rights.
The international drug policy must be coherent evaluated according to social, environmental and human rights criteria and
be realigned. Because until now, it promotes organized crime, thus contributing, inter alia, to the destabilization of
States and regions of the world in. We support the initiative of the
"Global Commission on Drugs", which calls for the end of the disastrous policy of prohibition.
We want to strengthen the human rights responsibilities of business, as we hope not only to voluntary commitments but binding regulations develop, define this responsibility. These include disclosure requirements
after strong social and environmental criteria. The public
must be able to understand how much a company's wage
Seamstresses in Bangladesh pays or how it disposed of in Congo contaminated water. These include new rules on liability.
And this includes better remedies in Germany and
the EU for victims of serious human rights violations, the
caused by German or European companies.

300

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

The necessary social-ecological transformation must be the task of the entire federal government. It can not be that
further arms exports running against peace efforts, paid environmentally harmful subsidies, and export offensives
Efforts to overcome poverty and hunger in developing countries are zunichtegemacht.
We stand for new policy coherence within the meaning of peace, democracy and a human rights-based sustainable development. For that we want government-wide target agreements, more
Competence for networked governance, the strengthening of departmental circles,
better coordination of foreign policy by the Foreign
Office and the coordination of development cooperation and
all development funds by the Ministry of Development.
At the same time it takes a cross-party debate
deals with the contradictions of German governance. This debate we want to in the 18th legislative period
a commission of inquiry "Coherence in a changing world" trigger that draw a critical balance and to propose changes - also for the working structures of the federal government and
Bundestag in European and international context.

We understand development policy as part of a global structural policy, sustainable on a global human rights-based
Development aims. It mobilizes and supports individuals and political actors, civil society and business, science
and culture for global socio-ecological transformation.
We want that all people can live in peace and dignity. Therefore want and we have to fight poverty and inequality more consistently in the future, both in the poorest, often fragile
States as well as in the middle-income countries, where
two thirds of the poorest people live. For this purpose, we will by 2015
strengthened commitment to the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals. At the same time we are working to bring together the development and environment agenda in order from 2015 with strong global

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

301

Our One World

2. A world of justice

Our One World

Time for the green transformation

Sustainability goals continue to fight for the social-ecological transformation.
Germany has committed years ago to 0.7% of its
Gross national income for development and humanitarian aid
provide. From this objective, we are still far away. To put it
reach, we are in spite of financial challenges
a clear issue focus on global justice
set. We are 1.2 billion euros a year in addition to the development cooperation and EUR 500 million for the international
Provide climate. We want to use new financial instruments, such as the revenues from the financial transaction tax
and increased air ticket levy. We want to end the
next legislature reach the 0.7% target.
We want to shape a sustainable development policy,
overcoming poverty by strengthening human rights
and the protection of the environment and biodiversity in harmony
brings. The Development Ministry has to adjust to global challenges and to become a Ministry for International Cooperation and Sustainable Development.
Development policy must reorient itself in the face of global challenges. To promote peace-building,
we want to commit ourselves coherent in fragile states and our
Expand development cooperation with these countries. Conflicts must be defused before they escalate and lead to violence. For the global social turnaround we want a good job
and the expansion of social security systems and basic services
make it a focal point of our development cooperation, inter alia, the human right to water, education
ensure health and therefore the fight against
HIV / AIDS drive. For the global agricultural reform, we back the
Right to food at the center and put an emphasis on
smallholder agriculture and livestock farming, artisanal fishing and landless. And to accelerate the global transformation of energy,
we fight against energy poverty and to promote renewable energies for
all, including through knowledge and technology transfer
on a grand scale.
Development needs debt relief! For an economical
Rebirth of the poorest countries are debt relief initiatives and the

302

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Deletion particular illegitimate debts essential. We sit
us for the creation of an international bankruptcy law for States to over-indebted countries from the sustainable debt spiral
to free.
But we do not just need more money in development cooperation; we want to use the funds for development cooperation and more efficiently than before. The people in Germany should know how their tax funds to poverty reduction
be used. That's why we want more common and
transparent development programs in the EU and the UN under
a responsible involvement of our partner countries and the
Civil society. This also means that we have the instrument of budget support, so the direct support of the public budgets
of developing countries, to develop and expand. Budget support has to clear criteria on human rights and good
Governance are linked. At the same time, our policies must be coherent. All other policies with an impact on developing countries must be checked whether
they come with the development policy objectives in the way.
We compete against the enforced by black and yellow renationalisation of development cooperation. That is why we are looking for
the abolition of ⅓: ⅔-rate for the proportion of European
and multilateral to bilateral cooperation. Because global problems no longer be solved by individual countries alone
can, we want a significant strengthening of multilateral cooperation in order to achieve greater impact on development with the EU and the UN.
A key objective of development cooperation is the political participation of the people in the partner countries. We want
People in their abilities to support, claim their rights and realize. Poverty and violence are not gender neutral. Women are in conflict again and again the victims of targeted
and strategically-used sexual violence and are particularly
affected by deprivation, discrimination and exploitation. Structural causes like power differences and dominance relations,
lack of rights and inadequate access to resources
and a lack of political participation of women block a gender-equitable society worldwide. Therefore, strategies must

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

303

Our One World

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Time for the green transformation

Our One World

gies, want to overcome poverty and violence, aimed at the
To strengthen rights of women and girls, their (access) opportunities
and to increase the power differences between the sexes
to reduce. We stand against the discrimination against gays,
Lesbians and bisexual and transgender people, and more
Promote tolerance by means of the local civil society, especially in
Countries where sexual minorities violent attacks
are exposed.
Especially the strengthening and participation of women within the meaning of
UN Resolution 1325 is of particular importance. In the
Resolution are called parties to the conflict, the rights
to protect women and women on an equal footing in peace negotiations to include conflict resolution and reconstruction. The state institutions of the partner countries, we want to
encourage and strengthen it, to acknowledge its human rights obligations towards their population and to fulfill.
Because poverty is not gender-neutral, we put the development funds strengthened for better education and equal opportunities for women
and a girl.
Hunger is not a fate, but a series of policy failures. There is a lack especially of access and equity.
We pursue a coherent, overarching strategy for interagency
Realizing the right to food and food sovereignty for more, which in addition to the promotion of sustainable agriculture and fisheries and local value-added and social
Security systems include. Measures against "land grabbing" and unscrupulous speculation in food include
to. In view of increasing hunger and natural disasters, armed conflict, we want the appropriations for humanitarian aid
significantly increase.

304

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

The upheaval in the Arab world have the vulnerabilities of
German and EU foreign policy made it clear that on perceived stability at the expense of human rights-oriented policy
has set. A new foreign policy and development must therefore
Human rights become the center. German policy must in terms of the protection and promotion of human rights and
Developing coherent will. It may not happen that
a resort in the service of human rights and development work and another thwarted the achievement of these objectives with their own, without consulting measures or even destroyed. We want
Ensure coherence, for example, through interagency country strategies for partner countries in development cooperation. And the/
the Human Rights Commissioner of the Federal Government is to strengthen
are, both in terms of expertise and human resources.
Development and human rights are the foundations for peace and freedom. For us this means to fight for the right to development and for an end to hunger and poverty. For a
End torture and discrimination. For an end to impunity
in the most severe violations of human rights by strengthening
International Criminal Court and international criminal law. For a
End of exploitative child labor. For more rights of people who are marginalized in their country, persecuted or even killed
be it was because of their sexual identity or your favorite
for self-determination, because of their gender, religion or
Ethnicity or because they are politically active and eg human rights
defend. And we close our eyes to the human rights problems in Germany and in the EU. Even in the use
Against Torture, we want to do more. We want the National Agency for the
Prevention of torture with adequate human and financial
Equip agents and strengthen the absolute prohibition of torture as a fully recognized human rights standards. Also set
we to ensure that the death penalty is outlawed throughout the world and all executions are prevented. Germany
should also exert international pressure on the more states, the
the use of child soldiers is not genuine, and projects
Reintegration of former child soldiers support.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

305

Our One World

3. A world of human rights

Time for the green transformation

Our One World

4. A world of peace and the responsibility to protect
"Peace without Weapons" - this claim was a drive
green Parteiwerdung. We remain convinced that
real peace will only politically, not militarily achieved
can. We therefore always and necessarily rely on the primacy of civilian crisis prevention and conflict management. Peace can not be
military force. But peace policy is for us not an absolute renunciation of military intervention. There are situations where violent military intervention is necessary to prevent serious human rights violations or even genocide
or to stop.
The created under red-green civilian approaches need to be developed and their residue caught up against the military capabilities: Nestled into a national peace strategy
the Action Plan for Civilian Crisis Prevention to today's peace policy challenges to adapt. Special pent-up demand, there is at the focal points promote peace potentials and legitimate statehood. To civilian crisis prevention and
Peacebuilding to move into the center of our policy needs, the
competent Steering Group significantly more weight and joint ministerial budget. With the formation of civilian targets is to ensure that Germany quickly and persistent civil and
may send police professionals in peace missions. The capacity of the Centre for International Peace Operations (ZIF), the
Civil Peace Service and civil society programs should be extended and doubled their funds. Are build
develop US capabilities to political mediation. The police forces of
Federal and state governments are by additional personnel and Reserve
to empower through incentives to make reliable contributions to peacebuilding. Indispensable are careful and conflict
Effect analysis, and extensive regional expertise that only with
more funds for practical regional and Peace Research
are to have. The many actors of civil conflict
need a central place the Lessons Learned Process Analysis,
Development and education. To get out of the shadow of public perception, Civilian Peacebuilding requires finally systematic public relations and educational work.

306

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

We understand the concept of international responsibility to protect, the responsibility to protect, as an important pillar of the Crisis Prevention and they intend to implement effectively. For us, this
necessarily the prevention of violent developments about by oppression, dictatorship, terrorism and bad governance, but also the special protection of civilians,
especially women and children, in armed conflicts.
Specifically, this means, for example, to strengthen national and international systems for early warning and early political activation
and in the federal government a special place for implementation
set up the responsibility to protect. Diplomacy, conflict mediation and civil sanctions are available for us in the first place. Required
is a national strategy for peace than peace and security political compass. You should at an early stage and debated socially
advised by the Bundestag and be decided. It replaces
the White Paper on Security Policy of 2006 defines regions
for Germany sees itself in a special responsibility, and
determines which tasks the Federal Republic by any means
can perceive in the concert of the international community and wants.
The use of military force is worth considering only as a last resort when all other alone have no chance of success. Military can best time window for crisis management
create, but not peace itself. The Bundeswehr can a
Contribution to curbing violence and collective peacekeeping
afford. The parliamentary approval has been proven, however, must in particular as regards the control of requiring confidentiality
Inserts are strengthened. Every military operation must continuously to its proportionality, effectiveness and legal
Basis to be checked. For such use, a mandate of the Security Council, according to the current constitution of the UN
the condition. However, a non-action as a result of
Blockade of one or more veto powers of international law
equally massive damage and the United Nations as the intervention without a mandate. In case of a blockade of the Security Council, the General Assembly rather than the Security Council should work with
qualified majority penalties to peace enforcement
Measures under Chapter VII of the UN Charter decide.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

307

Our One World

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Our One World

Time for the green transformation

The use of military force is independent of the target
always a great evil and must, whenever possible, be avoided
become. GREEN us it was in the past is not easy to recognize that there are situations in which to curb
Violence and the collective peacekeeping, the use of military
may be necessary. We have in our party about long and
intensively discussed, learned from the experience with military operations
and fought for the principles and criteria by which we judge whether a foreign deployment of the Bundeswehr is responsible.
We can a violent military intervention in individual cases
only endorse if it is due to location a legally clear mandate from the UN and a Bundestag mandate. That
Actions of the servicemen and women is bound without exception to basic and human rights. The international trend towards
increasing privatization of military tasks we face
contrary. The overall political approach must be clearly defined and promising as well as its risks justifiable. This requires
not only clear rules of engagement: We have a comprehensible list of criteria for evaluating future and prolonging missions abroad as well as concrete and verifiable targets
presented to all agents employed in each case, which provides the basis for any decision. We call for an independent evaluation
international operations. Have military and civilian forces
a right to comprehensive care and support during
and after use. This also applies to their family members. The social recognition of servicemen and women must not
accompanied by a glorification of military action.
Early intervention in conflicts that early action works,
only with appropriate personnel. We therefore want the UN and
, Strengthening regional organizations, especially the EU and OSCE in their abilities for civilian crisis prevention.
For us directly led UN missions take precedence over EUoder NATO-led missions. Own the vision, the UN
to insinuate permanent troops instead of national military contingents, we are sticking. We are committed to ensuring that Germany
UN missions - civilian and military - not only financially, but
also personally strongly supported. Therefore, Germany has the UN
provide more civilian professionals available. The Bundeswehr

308

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Europe needs to be better, last UN-capable, ie, they must
be modified so that they are their stabilizing and protective tasks more effectively in international conflicts
can. This mission statement should be leading the way for the Bundeswehr reform
be. The abolition of conscription was overdue. The current reform plans of the federal government do not go far enough. The
Bundeswehr must contribute more significantly to fiscal consolidation, including through further staff reductions. The original, but
never-compliance with austerity measures by black and yellow have shown
that the defense budget has to shrink. Many procurement projects
are mainly industrial policy reasons and the need to
Dynamometer. The economic consequences of military structural change
are offset by an active conversion policy. We want
save more than 10% of the current defense budget.

Germany is the world's third largest exporter of arms. Especially under the Merkel government fell any sense of shame, when it came, billion dollar deals with authoritarian
States to make such as Saudi Arabia. And the Chancellor transfigured this cynical export policy as a form of conflict resolution.
At the same time it contradicts the principles of democracy when arms deals in the Federal Security Council be approved without
that Parliament and the public to be informed.
That is why we want to introduce a binding and restrictive arms export law, the German arms exports only after
clear criteria allowed. Here these criteria are so concrete
be they in the way of a representative action before a court
can be sued. The responsibility we want to transfer from the Ministry of Economic Affairs to the Foreign Office. Arms exports to countries crush human rights underfoot, it may
no longer exist.
A Green government involvement there is, therefore, only with another arms export policy, which finally enables greater transparency and control and is restrictive. That is why we want the federal

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

309

Our One World

5. Stop the uncontrolled and
secret arms export policy

Our One World

Time for the green transformation

dessicherheitsrat abolish in its current form. Instead, should
future the entire federal government decide in consensus. The Parliament and the public are immediately notified of the
decisions are informed. We also want to
Insert a parliamentary body that controls the arms export policy of the federal government and in the ruling on
sensitive exports, especially exports to third countries may lodge a suspensive veto. Hermes guarantees for arms exports, we want to prohibit in principle, as well as the export of
Production licenses for war weapons to third countries. Even an actual Endverbleibskontrolle we want to enshrine in law to
to prevent the export of goods falling into the wrong hands
and are used for example for human rights violations or terrorism.
We also want a total of fewer weapons in the world
and an end to the global armament, which is promoted with German weapons technology: The trade in small arms
must be massively limited and controlled, the international
Ban on cluster munitions and landmines must and worldwide
are implemented consistently. Even uranium ammunition we want to comprehensively outlaw.
We want the withdrawal of all nuclear weapons from Germany and
fighting for Global Zero, for a world without nuclear weapons - which is why
We continue to argue for a Nuclear Weapons Convention to
Nuclear weapons under international law to outlaw. The stationing of nuclear weapons in Büchel and enabling German aircraft and pilots to use or transport of nuclear weapons must be stopped
become. The nuclear-armed France and Britain
precludes a future EU civilian peace policy.
We are committed to ensuring that proposed by the United Nations Conference on the establishment of a nuclear-free zone
to lead to international success in the Middle East. The sale and transfer of arms carriers to
can contribute nuclear armament in the region, we reject
from and we want to avoid, and the supply of further
nuclear-capable submarines. The conflict over Iran's nuclear program must be resolved peacefully, and a possible nuclear-armed Iran be prevented by political means. We sit

310

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

311

Our One World

us to ensure that Germany and the EU in the negotiations
take a more active and stronger role mediating with Iran
and advocate for the review of sanctions.
To prevent the further spread of nuclear weapons, we will actively work to ensure that the spread of civilian uses of nuclear technology is stopped. The more States
the nuclear fuel cycle control, the more States
can also build nuclear bombs. Therefore, we aim to adapt the NPT and want to ban Hermes guarantees for nuclear power plant projects abroad.
We oppose the acquisition of armed drones
by the armed forces and put us internationally for a ban
of fully autonomous weapons. We argue for more transparency and accountability in the use of dual-use goods which could also
be used for warfare and the repressive use
be able. Also the export of surveillance and censorship technology to autocratic regimes, we reject. Human rights must
be defended on the Internet. The overflight rights and military bases of foreign forces in Germany may only
be used for the purposes of international law. Air-ground training areas such as Nordhorn Range are dispensable. The Military Counterintelligence is dissolve.

Time for the green transformation

Our One World

6. Strong United Nations, strong Europe
In the multipolar world of the 21st century we face the
Challenge of developing a new global security architecture. The recognition of the United Nations monopoly of violence (UN) is the first prerequisite. No player in world affairs has more legitimacy than the UN. For this
However, legitimacy is important that each state's equal and fair
Gets opportunity to become a member state.
Simultaneously, the United Nations but are only as strong as
its 193 Member States make them strong. We believe that the
UN is our best hope is to successfully drive forward the global transformation. At the same time we see urgent need for reform, so that they are better prepared for the great challenges of our time. Our final responsibility is to
Germany again to make it a strong and dedicated Member State with a clear democracy and peace agenda that strengthens particularly civilian crisis prevention and conflict management. Currently, the Federal Republic is at best
mediocre - mediocre active little compromise and scarcely reform ready. If we want a strong UN, we must also strongly
bring.
The Security Council needs to be reformed with the aim of
equitable composition. The veto possibilities we want
with a justification compulsion prove. In the long term, we stick to the
Vision of an abolition of the veto in the UN Security Council. Instead of
the fruitless insistence on a permanent German seat on the
Security We are committed to administer the non-permanent
European seat (s) of the western group involving the
United Kingdom and France to develop a permanent European representation. The debate and decision in the UN and the Security Council must be more representative
be and more transparent.
We demand that the National Action Plan for implementing
the UN Security Council Resolution 1325, the concept of human
Safety is taken as a basis. Conflict prevention and processing, including through criminal prosecution, the civil protection of human and women's rights and social rights should focus

312

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Germany to be in his work with the action plan 1325th Therefore
it needs a sound budgeting and effective monitoring in
Cooperation with civil society. We also call for the
Appointment of a special ambassador or a Special Envoy
for International Women's Policy.
Clubs such as the G8 or G20 are not suitable for a fair balance of interests. In the long term, all central institutions
global coordination and regulation under the auspices of the United
Nations. We want to achieve an appreciation of the Economic and Social Council and involve civil society more strongly in international processes. For a global partnership to address the
challenges ahead we need emerging and developing countries in the World Bank and the IMF in the future more
Say allow. Also the staff of these institutions should better represent the world in the future. World Bank, regional banks and the IMF to alternative development models beyond
develop and implement the classical growth models help.
The protection of human rights has to the center of their work
are provided. We are committed to ensuring that the IMF, World Bank and
Regional banks financing aid to countries particularly in the Global
Not socialize south on the implementation of neoliberal reforms.
A strong, united Europe must be able to problems
to edit in their own environment itself. The EU is not just
Only a peace project inward. The EU has the Common
Foreign and Security Policy and the European External Action
Service created structures to at a global order of peace
within the United Nations and a pan-European
System of cooperative security participate in the OSCE framework.
Schwarz-Gelb wants the common foreign and security policy
prefer to mothball it and expand the primacy of NATO.
We Greens want to strengthen the European External Action Service
with the objective of Europe with a common foreign policy
Can speak voice. We believe in the civilian power Europe. That is why we want to strengthen the EU these skills - by an extensive pool of civilian peace workers and the establishment of the European Peace Institute. We also want the
Develop Common Security and Defence Policy
integrate and reduce and the Armed Forces in Europe. This must

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

313

Our One World

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Time for the green transformation

accompanied by a control of these forces by the European Parliament.
NATO, too, we want to reform so that they can be integrated into these multilateral security architecture. Your search
strong focus on the military security of states does not meet our demands for peace policy. After the end
the block confrontation she must realign their duties. That
can only succeed if Russia and all Eastern European countries
be involved. The OSCE we want to strengthen, so that they to the
important role its predecessor the CSCE can tie in overcoming the Cold War. NATO should continue in the engine
His arms control and disarmament. The withdrawal of the remaining
US nuclear weapons from Europe and the ratification of the Adapted
Would the Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe first
Steps.

Our One World

7. tackle crises - enable lasting peace
The NATO operation in ISAF in Afghanistan in 2014
closed. If the Afghan government want another troop presence to monitor a cease-fire or a training mission, needs for a new legal basis
created by the UN. You must be a peacebuilding mission
, mandated and should take place as directly led UN mission - without
Combat mission and counterinsurgency. In due time before the withdrawal of the Bundeswehr, we want to spot a recording program for
Local staff of the Bundeswehr and German development organizations including their families perform. To those who so
want, so the possibility of recording in Germany should be granted. Even for people who are or in their lives
are at the latest threat to their health when the military withdraws and the power is redistributed, it must be a way of asylum. From the Bundeswehr be responsible for, civilian
Victims and their relatives are generous and unbureaucratic
compensate. Since the conflict in Afghanistan can not be resolved by military, we want to make every effort and negotiations
Calls to start a process of reconciliation. And only by

314

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

a comprehensive and credible funded civil society
and development policy program that the strengthening of women's rights in view, we can ensure the country's reconstruction. Therefore, we want the civilian resources for Afghanistan maintained at least in unprecedented in scope.
Peace between Israel and Palestine will be possible only by
a fair balance of interests and perspectives, the rights
has the security of all people in the region in view. From Germany's responsibility for the Holocaust follows an unalterable and permanent support for the existence and security
Israel. We are committed to a two-state solution and an end
the occupying a. The state of Palestine must be strengthened, in a timely manner of
Europe be recognized and accepted as a full member of the UN. We want to work together with the US government, with positive
incentives and disincentives both sides to direct and substantial
Peace talks involving all willing to negotiate
Forces move to as soon as possible because the situation a peace
1967 borders with Jerusalem as capital of both states and
to achieve a solution to the refugee question. A conflict resolution
is only due to location consistent application of international law
to be possible. Against this background, we condemn both the
Rocket attacks and bombings in Israel as well as the progressive conquest of the West Bank, including East Jerusalem
and the blockade of Gaza. We also want to support the confidence-building and promoting understanding of the work numerous peace initiatives in Israel and Palestine.
The international community is unable or unwilling,
their protection responsibilities towards the Syrian population
to do justice. So far, the UN Security Council could not relate to a condemnation of the atrocities still on
some common sanctions. A systematic study
the most serious human rights crimes by the International Criminal Court, the international community so far
not pursued. Russia and China block any broader
Demands the UN Security Council and support so that the Assad regime. We want to accommodate Syrian refugees in Germany
and the neighboring countries of Syria more than ever in the material
Supply and placing of daily increasing number

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

315

Our One World

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Time for the green transformation

support to refugees. In addition to humanitarian aid must
Syrian IDPs, especially in the so-called liberated
Areas through co-operation with Syrian and international
NGOs arrive and the construction of civil structures in these
Areas are systematically supported. Within the framework of the United Nations, we want to continue to work for the negotiation of a nationwide political process and secure a political agreement is optionally substituted by a UN peacekeeping mission. The
Supply of weapons in the civil war, we reject.

Who chooses GREEN ...
• promotes prosperity for all on a sustainable development path and strengthen development cooperation.
• agrees for more climate protection and climate justice worldwide.
• selects more peace through greater civilian crisis prevention and
agrees on disarmament, arms control and a strict
nuclear-free world.
• advocates the strengthening of human rights here and on
international level a.
• selects clear boundaries and criteria for foreign missions.

Our One World

• stands for stronger, equitable and democratic United
Nations.

316

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Key projects
No arms exports at the expense of human rights
- Adopt an arms export law
We want to control arms exports more than before. To
we want a law and the criteria of the arms export policy, in particular the human rights situation in the recipient country
the risk of internal repression, firmly anchored. In addition to
the Foreign Ministry be responsible for arms exports. We want to abolish the Federal Security Council in its current form. The
Confidentiality of decisions on arms exports, we want to abolish. The German Bundestag shall be informed before any intended arms export approval for particularly sensitive exports and given the opportunity for a suspensive veto for
Opinion. In addition, we need strict rules for comparable
the export of surveillance technology. The export of weapons and software for monitoring communication and Internet to dictatorships must be stopped. So we can exports
the defense industry better control.

One sixth of humanity is hungry, environmental degradation and climate change are progressing, states disintegrate, accept refugees
to. These global challenges that can only be met in solidarity, we will face together with our international partners. That is why we are committed to equitable
Structures, social participation and more international cooperation. In contrast to the Merkel government we are the commitments
Germany finally comply. We want to raise the funds for development cooperation, civilian crisis prevention and humanitarian assistance up to 2017 to 0.7% of gross national income and
additionally described already in 2014 EUR 1.2 billion for development cooperation and EUR 500 million for international climate protection

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

317

Our One World

Climate justice - international
Commitments finally meet!

Time for the green transformation

Riding ask. Especially for the adaptation of developing countries to
climate change, the global energy and agricultural policy, the establishment of social security systems and the Peacebuilding want
we use significantly more resources.

Removing Civilian Crisis Prevention - agents double for peacekeepers

Our One World

We want to move, civilian crisis prevention and conflict management at the center of German foreign policy. It needs a comprehensive
National peace strategy, effective structures, more money and
Staff for Civilian Peacebuilding in the fields of conflict transformation, gender mainstreaming, police, judiciary, public administration, Parliament building, dialogue and reconciliation. In order to build appropriate training and civilian professionals pools may want
we double in Germany the funding for the Centre for International Peace Operations and for the Civil Peace Service, more
Giving money in the Peace Research and the peace education
Support range of schools. At European level we are
us for an EU Peace Institute to strengthen the mediation and
Strengthen crisis prevention in the European External Action Service
on. The Steering Group for Civilian Crisis Prevention We want to anchor on Minister of State-level and enhance civil society advisory board. We want to establish regional advisory councils for core regions may initiate early action and regular
Bundestag and the Federal Government to submit recommendations. We want to achieve better cooperation between the line ministries by
part of the funds will be pooled.

318

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Closing Remarks
Dear voter, dear voters,
we hope we could convince you with our program. Do you have any further questions? Talk on the spot with our candidates for the Bundestag. Inform to be
Choice on our website www.gruene.de. We are happy to
for any further information.
Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future - which together
the foundation for a green transformation in politics and society -
for social justice, for more democratic participation,
for a better tomorrow.
Wear with your voice instrumental in these foundations for a
green transformation to create. Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future - which describes a new way out of the crises and the departure towards an open, modern society and an economy that is better and more economical with our natural resources
bypasses.
Energy policy and ecology, justice and a modern
Society - these are the main directions for us. They give a green policy in the direction of our proposals and profile.
Select GREEN! Top with two voices - but especially
with the more important second vote.
Second vote GREEN!

Closing Remarks

Set on 22 September 2013, the foundation for a green
Change. Select GREEN. For more justice. For more participation. For a better tomorrow.
For the green transformation!

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

319

Time for the green transformation

Keyword register
A

Keyword register

Waste 155, 159, 275
Disarmament 314 316
Afghanistan 314-316
Agricultural Policy 153, 157, 160-168, 185, 272, 300, 304
ALG II ruleset 119-122, 137 f.
Single parent 144 f., 241 f.
Elderly 101, 121, 131-133, 136, 148 f., 289
Pension 94, 133-139, 163
Antidiscrimination 224, 228 f., 236 f., 248
Antisemitism see Group Focused Enmity
Antiziganism see Group Focused Enmity
Workers rights / -mitbestimmung 88-94
Labour Market Policy 88-103
OSH 92 f., 103, 125
Poverty (sbekämpfung) 89, 118-122, 133-139, 143-145, 150 f.
Biodiversity 158, 162, 167
Asylum (policy) 120, 233-236, 238 f., 288, 295
Atomausstieg / energy 27-36, 42, 289 f.
Education 95-98, 104-117
Foreign policy see One World

B
BAföG 100, 110 f., 117
Accessibility 190, 229-231, 254
Disability, people with 97 f., 106 f., 127, 132, 141, 229-231
Education 104-117, 190, 229-231, 254
Biodiversity see biodiversity
Soil Protection 155
Deployment of broadband networks 53, 190, 202

320

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

Bundeswehr 221, 229, 307-309, 311, 314
Citizen participation 152, 174, 176, 204-217, 268, 294
Civil rights 194, 201, 218-239
Citizens Insurance 100, 122 f., 137, 138, 255, 265

D
Notice 189, 195, 203, 210, 219 f., 225 f.
Demographic Change 53, 101, 103, 148 f., 174, 276 f.
Democracy 152, 204-217, 222, 245, 259, 286 f.
Digital society see power policy
Direct democracy see citizen participation
Drug Policy 130, 239, 300
Drones 220, 311

E

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Keyword register

Marriage for same-sex couples 236, 238
Ehegattensplitting 84 f., 145, 148, 240 f., 243, 251
Economic independence 94, 120, 240-243, 250 f.
Naturalization 231 f., 237 f.
A world 296-318
Income Tax see Tax Policy
Immigration 133, 232, 237
Electromobility 170, 172, 178
Repository (Search) 36
Energy efficiency 27 f., 34, 38 et seq., 41, 289 f.
Energy saving 39, 290
Energy Policy / U-turn 27-45, 289 f.
Development Policy 298, 301 f., 305
Equal Pay see pay equity
Politics of memory 261 f., 265
Nutrition 153-168, 184 f., 304
Renewables 27-45, 50, 52, 172 f., 290
Euro 55-64
Start-up 65

321

Time for the green transformation

F
Families (policy) 84 f., 108, 140-145, 150 f.
Fiscal Policy 74-87
FTT 62-64, 302
Refugee policy, see Asylum (policy)
Federalism 80, 266, 277 f.
Research see Science & Research
Fracking 34 f., 155
Women 90, 94 f., 101, 136 f., 240-251, 304
Quota for women 101, 240, 242, 245, 249, 251
Peace (policy) 281-285, 296-318

G

Keyword register

All-day schools 109, 116 f., 144
Guarantee pension see pension
Common good 204, 207, 267, 269, 279
Gender Budget 53, 245
Intergenerational Justice 135, 149
GM 160-162, 184-187
Justice see participation (fairness)
Gender equality see equality
Health policy 123-133
Equality / position 208, 228 f., 240-251, 303 f.
A world see globalization
Basic security 85, 95, 138 f., 119-122, 134, 145, 150 f., 291
Group Focused Enmity 212-216, 222, 229, 260

H
Trade policy 52 f., 298-301
Budgetary policy 74-87
Hochschulpolitik 104-107, 110-115, 117
Homosexuality 236-237, 304
Hunger (crisis) 296-305, 317

322

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

I
Freedom of Information Act see transparency
Information technologies 125 191
Infrastructure 75, 79 f., 174, 266 et seq., 271 to 274, 279
Inclusion 106, 231-234, 248, 259
Integration 231-235, 238
Interculturalism / intercultural 65, 107, 127, 222-224, 229, 238,
254
International politics see One World
Internet freedom see Netzpolitik

J
Youth 109f., 146-147, 152, 194, 209 f., 291

K

Keyword register

Childcare 142-145
Children basic security 85, 120, 143, 145, 151, 243
Children (policy) 104-109, 116, 120, 140-152
Churches see religion
Climate policy / protection 31, 33-35, 39-45, 70 f., 153-169, 178
Coal-fired power 33, 41, 44, 168
Local government finances 274 f., 280
Municipal policy 266-280
Corruption 126 f., 211 f., 216 f., 263, 284
Crisis Prevention see peace policy
Cultural policy 252-260
Art 198, 252-258

L
Rural areas 125, 163, 170, 190, 202, 272-274, 276 f.
Agriculture see agricultural policy

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

323

Time for the green transformation

Noise 155, 172-177
Lesbian see homosexuality
Equal pay 90, 242, 250
Air pollution / clean air 153-155, 162, 168

M
Managers compensation 54, 62
Men 244 f.
Market economy, see Economic Policy
Factory farming 163-165, 167 f.
Media (policy) 188-203, 258 f.
Mehrstaatigkeit see Naturalization
Trafficking 248 f.
Human Rights 236, 259 f., 285-289, 296-317
Tenancy / rent see housing market
Minimum 56, 74, 90, 94, 102, 120, 138, 291
Minijobs 88, 90, 94 f., 136, 242, 243, 251
Participation 69, 88-93, 207 et seq., 215, 287
Mobility see transport policy

N

Keyword register

The Middle East 315 f.
NATO 309, 313 f.
Conservation see environmental protection
Net Neutrality 53, 192 f., 202
Network policy 188-203
NSU 213, 221

O
Ecology see Environment
Ecological modernization 46, 49, 51
Eco-tax / environmental fiscal reform 77-87

324

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

PT 170-172, 177
Option forced 232, 238
East 240, 276 f.

P
Participation see citizen participation
Care policies / long-term care 124 f., 131-133, 138 f.
Prostitution 248

R
Racism see Group Focused Enmity
Right-wing see Group Focused Enmity
Rule of Law 226-228, 237 f.
Religion 68, 84, 93, 228 f.
Pension policy see pension
Resource Efficiency 72 f., 158-160
Arms exports 211 f., 298, 310, 317

S

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Keyword register

Debt reduction / debt 55-57, 59 f., 73, 80-87
Gays see homosexuality
Sexism 213, 246
Security (policy) 219-224, 237 f.
Social policy 118-139
Sports Politics 262 f.
Urban Development 146, 270 f.
Tax policy 77-87
Study see higher education policy
Subsidy cuts 38, 41, 52, 83-85
Addiction policy see drug policy

325

Time for the green transformation

T
Speed ​​limit 175
Animal Welfare 112, 157, 160, 164-168
Tourism 272, 276, 304
Transport & intersexed 236, 246
Transparency 54, 204, 204-208, 210-212, 215-217, 223

U
Environmental policy / protection 70-73, 77, 87, 153-168
UN / UN see UN
Copyright 198-202, 255

V

Keyword register

Consumer protection / rights issued 63, 179 f., 183, 186 f., 190
United Nations 306 f., 312, 314-316
Constitution (sschutz) 115, 188, 206, 222, 238
Transport 51, 156 f., 169-178
V-222 people, 238
Property Tax 57, 67, 79, 82 f., 86, 295
Referendum / -Administrative see citizen participation
Retention see Privacy

W
Growth 70-73
Water 153-155, 180, 273, 275
Training 100, 109-111, 117, 148
Economic policy 46-73
Science & Research 49, 52 f., 66, 111-117, 126, 192, 244 f.,
318
Housing market / Policy 267-269, 271, 279

326

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

Partaking. Mixing. Creating the future.

This federal election program was at the 35th Ordinary
Federal Delegates Conference of Alliance '90 / The Greens from
26 to 28 April 2013 Berlin decided.

Election campaign in 2013 - Inform and join:
Email: info@gruene.de
Internet: www.gruene.de
ALLIANCE 90 / THE GREENS
Platz vor dem Neuen Tor 1, 10115 Berlin
Tel .: 030-28442-0
Fax: 030-28442-210
Donation account:
Account number: 8035815900
BLZ: 430 609 67 | GLS Bank
Coverdesign: Zum goldenen Hirschen Berlin GmbH
Layout: COMPACT MEDIA GmbH, Berlin
Set & Implementation Accessibility: Linus Rowedda

imprint

V.i.S.d.P .:
Alliance '90 / The Greens, Robert Henry
Platz vor dem Neuen Tor 1, 10115 Berlin

Federal Elections 2013 program
Alliance 90 / The Greens

327
