WORK PLAN binomial V VICE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF
ECUADOR PREPARED BY THE NATIONAL ACTION Institutional Renewal Party - PRIAN
1.

DIAGNOSIS OF THE CURRENT SITUATION.

The Ecuador is experiencing a deep institutional crisis, it has no officials
independent, stable, working for the Ecuadorian State v not only for the Government
Turn,

The existing legal uncertainty, many investors do not seek projects
investment in our country and its resources go to Peru or Colombia, which affects stability Fa
economic, v directly affects job creation.

There is no independence in state functions, and both the judiciary and the
National Assembly, they have lost their oriented, mission and work. Without independent judges, never
we can obtain legal security v stability.
V insecurity crime affects all citizens in all spheres of society, and is
an attempt on his heritage.

Educational services, have failed to overcome the institutional crisis that come dragging

for many years, and at all levels, primary, secondary and university ago. It lacks local
functional, with minimal services, and teachers, especially in rural and small
cities. We have a university that does not investigate, that is completely away from the
production processes requjere Country

Million for public investment is allocated, without proper planning or taking
reafes into consideration the needs of Ecuadorians. Roads are built, for
having vehicles, not the mass transit serving others.

Health goes through deep crisis, and invested in hospitals, or in sophisticated equipment but

They forget that health begins with the provision of drinking water, do sewer collection Fa
garbage, ie first environmental sanitation,

which produces health effects of

Ecuadorians, and then primary health care and specialized.

Internal and external security has no clear policy, soldiers used to ei Control

cities, neglecting borders, thinking that with rifles fighting crime.
No measures of prevention, education and scrutiny, to end violence
prevailing in the country, which in turn causes crime, organized crime, money laundering, and
other ills that affect society Fa seriously.

The bureaucracy has become entrenched, and does not address in a timely and professional manner to the requirements
citizens. Form a partnership to reaFizar production, is a true

Odyssey, hire a worker becomes a conflict, there are no credits for

/ T ^ fa WITH 3 EIO CIO N * N * R * L LCLtC TÜ
RECIHDOPQR

ÍDJUkTQ:

'

,

small, medium producers, v credits for agricultural production, not just
exist

2.

General and specific objectives,

Requirements to citizens, candidates PRIAN seek objectives
General measures and implement public policies to generate employment for
Ecuador, which gives them stability, fair wages, professional development, social security, and
a dignified retirement.

This requires implementing measures to provide legal certainty, clear rules for
every citizen who wants to work independently or form a company, you have all the
State aid, with streamlined processes, timely, clear rules

to pay taxes,

so that it can make planning for the future of your business or company, without
shocks, or cyclical or policy measures.

It is also necessary to provide protection to their property, guaranteeing private property, its
segundad staff and their families.

The State must provide quality educational services, focused on the general principles

established in this work plan, so that education is linked to the processes
production, research and development.

The need for public works for sanitation v ecological protection should be
State policy, as without the provision of potable water, sewage collection v

garbage, we will have cleaner cities, and healthy citizens, so they can work or study
Do not invest in the provision of basic services, the field is forgotten.

Similarly Oe public works must be focused aJ development of the country, thus

we must consider whether we want more roads for the movement of vehicles or transport
massive as the railway, for the dignified and efficient transport of people. Who has

priority vehicles or people. Besides a good transportation system, it would improve the
environment, decrease pollution in cities, and use desmotivarja
contaminant transport, which affects the health of Ecuadorians.

By logic and coherence, productive development, and job creation must be linked to
international trade, to which Jo better relations will be established with countries with fos

which we have business relationships, or fos where our compatriots residing
Ecuadorians. International relations should not have a political tint, or seek to attack or
support ideological positions, from one country to another. National and international peace will
our goal, so reject the arms race, nuclear or development purposes
war.

Benefits and allowances will have a productive point of view, and not, <■ simple social assistance, as
citizen? mainly they are seeking employment, stability, bring the bread home, and the best
education for their children, who can not get them with minimal assistance.
3. PROPOSALS V STRATEGIES FOR COMPLIANCE objectives.

The Ecuadorian government will prioritize the government PRIAN, investment in education, health,
environmental sanitation, mass transit and safety, the concept of tin only people
healthy can be educated and be productive.

To this end, resources will be used to improve educational infrastructure at the school level and
middle school, so approximately twenty-five thousand schools, have

adequate facilities, modern classrooms, potable water, bathrooms, kitchens, libraries, services
computer and

Intemet, full-time teachers for each grade, and teachers

sanded spice. Language teaching English as a universal language, and science will be prioritized
accurate. With the planned educational services seek to identify the capabilities of
students, to guide them to intermediate professions or university courses. All this

basic and intermediate level. All schools and cofegios have books and notebooks, as well as
food, financed by the State.

Universities constitute true centers of research and development, where
will prioritize research into agricultural production, so we can add value to
all our production for the benefit of farmers in the country. We have a wide

livestock production, but we have centers that process milk for production
Products derived from this element to the insetting.
The same can be done with vegetables, fruits, def sea products, etc., to stop being simple
producers of raw materials or commodities. The world needs food, and we
we can provide, all properly processed.

To this end economic resources to the field will be channeled through private banks and all
public, credit to medium and long term, investment in infrastructure, technology,
research and development.

We look for technological development in the collection and distribution of water for production

agricultural, since not only a water law, which distributes the water is required, we need a lev,
to protect the water from its catchment pipe, to prevent evaporation by the sun, or

lost by the destruction of the canals, to distribution for drip irrigation technology
It designed many years ago, which has been sown v grown up in the desert.
Agricultural production is fundamental to the development of Ecuador as a country well
increased and healthy, productive.

In fos production centers and traditionally dedicated to agriculture populations, will be created
specialized agricultural schools and research centers and agricultural development. Na only

want agricultural engineers, we also agricultural technicians with intermediate runs,

to help us develop and control production processes, development of new
products, planting trees.

Jos s best students scholarships will be awarded, to specialize in the best centers
existing research at universities in other countries, which will be guaranteed employment
and good pay to return to the country.

Education seek to internationalize knowledge, IT-based technology that Ja
I will provide better business opportunities for Ecuadorian producers.
Our country is primarily agricultural, so the state policy, it will improve
all productive nn / him, and in all regions processes.

Similarly properly we will exploit the other vocation Ecuador, its riches for
tourism, a source of employment, with our Metah income of at least two million
tourists in the first two years of our government, which ta infrastructure to be built
necessary in sierra, coast, east, without affecting the environment, so construction
railroad.

To this effect tourism schools, where the teaching language will be taught will be created, and
a tour operator, must master English and other languages ​​such as French, German,

Italian. Schools tourist guJas form, waiters, cooks specialized in our
gastronomy and in the international, support staff, etc.
For tourism development credit lines for the construction of hotels, hostels are opened,

Tourist bus stops, as we seek that all sectors of society to create their
own business, even family business for \ to attention of tourists. We want this
project, thousands of Ecuadorians to benefit the tourism business as required
not only hotels or hostels, but also transportation, food, crafts, insurance, etc,
The tourism and agricultural development requires a new labor law, as it requires regular

time work, seasonal, for which reforms will be promoted to the Labour Code
seeking to regulate new forms of work, payment of appropriate compensation, and
Ja ensure stability.

Likewise clear rules for tax payments shall be established, as it is

demonstrated in the world that high tax rates encourage evasion, low rates stimulate
I pay. Ecuadorians know what the tax burden to be paid in four years

PRIAN Government, and you will not be changing the rules every time, and that
It creates uncertainty, instability and discourages domestic and foreign investment.

Establish legal rules to guarantee investments and regulations to solve
conflicts, and that the state should not confiscate companies, investors and attack everything
Otherwise, there will be ciaras standards, so that all investors, generate employment opportunities.

The state is no regulator and competition for private investment.

For this reason the legislation modernizaré for every entrepreneur, small, large or
medium, state aid has to conform to the company, centralizing control in a
one office, we can not allow the process of formation of a company takes more than
one month. In the Government of PRIArJ, the businesses will be two or three days, and have all
permits to operate in that time, including the single taxpayer registration number
patronaf in the Ecuadorian Institute of Social Security, municipal license and all permits
municipal for operation in the branch it. We will end the unproductive bureaucracy, and
We will facilitate the creation of jobs.

All civil servants will be evaluated in a professional and non-subjective way, so
know their efficient and productive performance will give stability and good pay, not
only membership in a political party. Eph public official can not be a bureaucrat braking
productive society plays in the Government of PRIAN be engines of development,
State controller and regulator, but not police, and even worse corruption or agent
inefficiency.

The stability of public employees is guaranteed, but set general parameters

productivity and efficiency at all levels. A teacher will be evaluated on the basis of
knowledge they have their students. A doctor with the number of consultations attended, or
operations carried out. We can not let a hundred hospital beds, make a number

operations and attention in a year, and others fewer. All they have to attend
within global parameters. In the same way a judge will be graded by number ei

of judgments given in a year, and the number of modified sentences in cases of appeal,
quantity and quality. State enterprises will be graded on the basis of their balance sheets and company
does not generate profits, will be classified as unproductive, and only for this reason change your

administration. By this we note that all public officials will be evaluated
on the basis of technical and non-political parameters. The good employee is guaranteed the stability and
remuneration. Fa ill will of government. The Ecuadorian State has
because wasting resources on bad employees. Efficiency and productivity is the challenge.
But to work Jas tourism companies, agricultural and other, soto not require the
legal certainty, but also public safety, since impunity and crime

has not been controlled in Ecuador in recent years, it makes all citizens and
tourists look at us as an unsafe country, and we have to end this, for which we propose
professionalize the police, we do not want police troops, but real agents

Researchers do not want barracks, but true office of criminal investigation, no
we slow legal processes garantistas criminals, we streamlined processes,

where are punished immediately, respecting the norms of due process to
criminals, and especially to those that have been learned in flagrante delicto for
sending them to real rehabilitation centers.

For analysis of the crime I control the entire police legislation will be amended so that Jos

police are linked to the cities, as each dudad has its problems, conflicts and
criminals, so the Mayor of fas cities planned annually with senior police officers
Professionals, such as prevention and control of crime will be handled for the end of each
year enhance evaluation and see if it worked. If not police control,
change the controls, otherwise they will be more stable and better pay,
But the system only works with police, as wrongly when it dictates

Code of Criminal Procedure, criminal investigation processes are responsible for the tax, and
the prosecutor investigates, it is a criminal lawyer specialize in science, for this reason,
police profession ed alloy is responsible for Research, with the scientific support of
criminologists, specialized laboratories and offices, so that later elements
investígateos collected professionally, prosecutors can accuse the criminals,
obtain a conviction, for the benefit of society.
We must also consider the statistics, which states that the greatest

number of crimes committed daily in the cities, are misdemeanors, where
fos common criminals act, which by the amount of stolen property stolen or not
They deserve more attention from police and prosecutors, which also enjoy guarantees
State, as they have free public defender, rules preventing his prison, and others

encourage criminal activity and impunity. For this reason the more than three hundred thousand
crimes committed annually, not counting what goes unreported, we have sentences
not exceeding three thousand a year, and this reflects impunity and overcome! 99%, and this is what
we want to improve, and end impunity.

For this, considering that 95% of crimes reported annually are

misdemeanors, a mechanism will be established to imprison the five thousand criminals
that exist in Quito, and a similar number in Guayaquil, and in smaller numbers in other cities,
sentenced to be sent to rehabilitation centers. Thus decongest

system, and police, prosecutors and judges, can engage in combat Jos felony or crime
organized requiring further work, research and resources, crimes affecting the
society.

The plan calls for the immediate punishment of young offenders, with penalties of up to one year,
Jas sent to low-security prisons, which are nothing other than production centers where
You produce paving stones, concrete blocks for construction, waste for composting is processed, and
other purposes. The rehabilitation can work, it is effective, and has very good experiences,

to send a person to prison to keep her locked srn do anything, breeds violence, trafficking
drug attacks ios peers, as they have nothing to do, share
experiences and hone their crimes.

U will first obligation prisoners, will work to support themselves, for which

will work to produce their food, each center will have farms, production
small animals, workshops. The first prisoners work for

support, and then with leftovers to generate resources to serve their sentences when,
they can join a society with productive entities. These centers also dictate courses
for detainees, professions that require more preparation, as painters, electricians,
etc.

Mass transit, safe, fast and efficient, will be among the priorities of the Government of
PRIAN to [or that the construction of an electric train that runs from tutean be planned to

Rrobamba, another from Quito to Esmeraldas, Guayaquil and Esmeraldas up to connect the
southern part of the country, with a path running from Guayaquil to Cuenca, since geography
35i country requires. Also mass transit fas cities of Quito and Guayaquil.
3. Implementation ¥ FINANClAMIENTO.

Most projects set out above, Ee made with the amount handled in the
general state budget, because with the same budget, and staff working in the

State may apply efficient public policies, optimizing all resources, whether
human, physical and existing infrastructure. Nu large investments are required, but a
clear policy, production, efficiency, service and productivity.

Improve the system with approximately forty thousand police, prosecutors and seven hundred and six thousand
judicial officials is feasible, since more staff is not required, but seek change
laws, and training of existing police and judicial officers. A system is required
efficient, where used efficiently technological mechanisms that exist in the
market.

To finance the city and national railway, have more than six million sucres Mii that
delivered in subsidies, which duly reversed, and once installed transport
massive trains, desestímularan vehicle use for the benefit of towns and cities,
4. ACCOUNTABILITY accounts.-

The Constitution of the Republic of Ecuador, orders that the President should li Republic
Presenting his annual report on the implementation of the National Development Plan and objectives
the government has set for the year siguetnte for the information of the Assembly
National, why we can not but comply with this constitutional mandate,
Guayaquil, November 8, 2012

Presidential candidate PRIAN
