1

Table of Contents

DOING BETTER TOGETHER
BETTER JOBS, BETTER ECONOMY
Work
Sustainable economy
Financial sector
Agriculture, fisheries and food
Consumer policy

4
14
25
33
41

CLEAN, AFFORDABLE ENERGY
Energy
Climate

50
65

FAIR TAXES
Taxation
Government performance

76
86

GOOD CARE WITHOUT QUEUE
Welfare
Healthcare
Medical and biological ethics

90
101
114

REDUCE THE GAP
Pensions
Family policy
Poverty reduction

117
122
126

BETTER EDUCATION FOR EVERY CHILD
Education

134

GOOD LIFE, HOME AND AWAY
Space for more quality of life
Quality and affordable housing for everyone
Smart mobility
Environmental health
Nature and Biodiversity
Animal rights
Police and security
Justice

2

148
159
168
183
195
202
204
210

EVERYONE IS MEE
Live together
Children and young people
Elderly
Ethno-cultural diversity
Gender
Gays and Transgender
A realistic and humane policy on asylum and migration
Democracy and honest politics
Culture
Media
Sport

217
222
228
233
241
245
249
260
263
280
285

EUROPE AND THE WORLD
Towards a socially and ecologically just Europe
Fair globalization

294
301

"We chose to make a single program for all levels: European, federal,
Flemish and Brussels. Behind every proposal is the level in which we want to achieve it: (E)
for European, (F) for federal, (V) for Flemish and (B) for Brussels. "

3

BETTER JOBS, BETTER
ECONOMY
WORK
VISION
Work plays an important role in our society. By working people can
plans to develop and realize they can socialize, they gain recognition, and
they earn an income. It is therefore important that we ensure that those who work
a fair wage is assured, a good contract, a healthy working environment, and the
guarantee that people listen to his or her wishes.

Quality is the key in a contemporary program around work. The quality of the
our entrepreneurs and employees is the key factor of our economy in a
internationally competitive environment. That is why innovation, training and a space
create plans in which people can realize central. Invest in appropriate jobs
guarantees that the work ability, health and employability and
Long-term self is maintained. That is also the best-career strategy.
When jobs people remain operable until the end of the race gets longer
work more interesting than before retirement.

Quality is the key in today's labor market. Everyone has under
the constitutional right to work. For Green, everyone has a right to quality work. Much
seekers find a good job on their own initiative. Is useful for others an unsubstituted or
not intensive support in their search for a good job. Green to the underprivileged
groups better guide them in their search for a suitable job. Failing by
reduce benefit of people, but by an appropriate for the weakest groups
place to provide the labor market. Many companies find a good on its own initiative
candidate for their vacancies. Other companies benefit from support in their
search for a good employee. Green wants to employers who have difficulty
Completing assist their vacancies. A quality labor market does not support
only job seekers but also corporations.

Work is important, but life is more than just work. The time spent on working
is should not prevent us also for children, health care and other commitments time
can release. For Green, it remains above all important that the labor market more
gives people the opportunity to relax careers with the life of people-centered
state and they get more choice to adjust their working time to their needs. On
A simple way to interrupt or decide the career to work part-time
should therefore remain central to the labor market. That is not only for
individual employees, but also for the labor market as a whole is important. By
voluntary redistribution of work we would work less with more people.

4

PROPOSALS
A FAIR WAGE: WHO WORKS TO THEM AT A DECENT WAY
BE REWARDED
1.

2.

3.

4.

5.

6.

5

Each European employee earns at least a sufficiently high minimum wage.
The European Union provides prosperity and opportunities. But not everyone benefits. Companies go there
where they can produce the cheapest: countries with the most attractive tax environment, low wages and
weak social legislation. That leads to another Member outdone with favorable conditions
for large companies, which are not necessarily beneficial for employees and the public treasury. Social dumping
within the EU is prevented by agreeing on minimum wage. These must have a sufficiently
Income offering so that those who work never goes below the national poverty line. (E)
A European wage index.
Europe wants to keep inflation under control in the Member States. This also has implications for the labor market. Either
we opt for extreme mobility of labor, either for a common wage policy. Green light
second option. In Europe, wages are not intended to compete with each other via dumping of labor, but as a
tool (sustainable) to stimulate demand and to turn our economy into innovation. It's income
modal (working) people are the engine of the world economy. A minimum wage policy takes into eurozone
with inflation and productivity. We therefore attach an automatic indexation to the 2% inflation target
of the European Central Bank. This allows you warrant and a coordinated wage evolution, and a control
inflation. (E)
The Belgian wage index continues to ensure the purchasing power of workers. The purchasing power of Belgian
employees is guaranteed by linking wages to the Belgian health index, as long as there
no wage index linked at European level to inflation of 2%. (F)
Remuneration better spread over the career.
Because the salary for most positions until the end of the career continues to increase, there is often
a big difference between the wages you receive on young and old age as an employee. We therefore fit
the pay scales gradually, so that they start to level off, but higher over time. Get on term
workers in the same job for ten years seniority bonuses. These new wage structure
the difference between workers and employees also help in terms of getting rid reward. Of course,
the expansion of this wage structure left to the social partners. This should ensure that acquired
rights are respected in the transition from old to new baremic systems. (F)
Pay gap between men and women continue close driving.
The pay gap between men and women can largely be explained. The wage gap between men and
women in the same job is no more than 5%. Explain the wage gap is not the same as the wage gap
good talk. Green wants to close the pay gap by driving careers of men and women
create more equal. We do leave systems more accessible to men (see below), ensuring
childcare for every child (see family policy), continue to monitor the gender-neutral job classifications,
discourage sex stereotypical study choices, and take away the glass ceiling (see below).
Individual wage negotiations are a major cause of the remaining wage discrimination between
men and women in the same job. That is why we argue for clear agreements on collective one
individual wage negotiations and the results are openly discussed, both to workers
employers and both women and men. (F, V, B)
Fair criteria for the salary of the boss.
Top earners are in the government and the private sector (more) curbed. More and more voices go
To reduce the wage spread between the highest and lowest wages. GroenLinks targets a ratio of
10: 1, a Swiss referendum voted 12: 1 and the British NEF believes that wage pressure greater than 14: 1
undermines productivity of an organization. Green wants a group of experts to determine what Belgium
designated maximum fair wage pressure can be.
Bonuses for directors are linked to long-term performance, shall not exceed 20 percent
of annual salary, and are paid only after ten years on condition that there are no major in the meantime
losses. (E, F)
Golden parachutes discourage tax.
Green wants the system of excessive termination payments, so-called 'golden parachutes' show
disappear. Therefore, we suggest that for people who have an annual income of more than 250,000
euro (net of social security contributions), a load of 100% is imposed on the portion of the
severance payments in excess of the greater of 250,000 euro than one month salary per year
seniority in the company. In anticipation of this legislation, the Belgian government should follow the example

pass to prevent the practice of "golden parachute" in public establishments for which they
shareholder. (F)

A GOOD CONTRACT: THERE MUST BE MADE GOOD AGREEMENTS
BETWEEN EMPLOYER AND EMPLOYEE
7.

One statute for employees.
In 2013 the first phase was completed in order to achieve a single statute for all employees. Servants and
workers will be treated equally in terms of the carenzdag and the periods of notice to comply.
But there are many other differences between the two statutes exist, which we still do not
can speak on equal treatment between all workers. The second phase for the other harmonies
should have been started already. Green wants to make quick work of these calls. Again can not wait 20 years.
(F)
8. A statute for all employees.
The agreement to establish a single statute allowed exceptions for some sectors. For example, the can
Construction respect a shorter notice period than other sectors. Green wants these exceptions
be limited in time. At the end of the legislative period, all employees should be treated equally,
Everyone must use the negotiated unit status. (F)
9. Temporary contracts inkantelen.
Job insecurity has a significant social cost, it has a negative impact on health
of employees. The recently introduced unit status for workers with short notice periods for
workers in short-term contracts, is an ideal time to give more security including temporary workers.
We give all temporary workers permanent contracts, and purchase the uncertainty of temporary
employment off. (F)
10. Also, temporary workers can use the unit status.
Temporary workers can take out an open-ended contract with the broadcasting company. So
these flexible workers have more certainty about their work and income, and they will easily
access to education and training. (F)
11. All temporary workers receive a contractual protection.
Who performing temporary work, get a contract before he or she enters into the work. Now that is only needed two
days after an employee starts work. And temporary workers lose basic rights during this
first days. A contract to give temporary workers before getting started involves no extra
administrative ballast with it when we electronic temps
contracts allow. (F)
12. The government also needs one statute for public employees.
The public sector can benefit from a 'single status'. We strive for a level playing field
Association between tenured and contractual civil servants, and to realize that the sectors and
administrative levels. For more detail about our proposals for public servants we refer to
the relevant section. (F, V, B)
13. Social contributions from self-employed to determine the actual income of the year. Some
self-employed with a strongly fluctuating turnover should as a result, substantial arrears in social
pay contributions. In order to prevent, Green supports plans to no longer calculate the social contributions
under the three-year income before (as is currently the case), but on the basis of the
income for the year in which the contributions are paid. (F)

AN INTERESTING AND HEALTHY (LOOP) JOB: PEOPLE GET THE CHANCE
DIRECTING FOR THEIR OWN CAREERS
14. Respect the operating power.
The Flemish government, unions and employers agreed in the pact in 2020 down to share appropriate jobs
improve significantly by 2020. However, the proportion of employees that have a problem with the
workability hardly decreased between 2004 and 2013. Green endorses the recipe trade union ACV:
"Early detection of bottlenecks in the work ability of employees is essential to the workability of
level to keep producing, jobaanpassingen or other individual customization. "
We support the accelerated development of a simple tool that the 'work ability' of
employees and measure self-employed. Social partners see from close to the elaboration of such neutral
instrument. This tool indicates where the individual work capacity does not correspond to the
6

15.

16.

17.

18.

expectations of the job and the work environment. When one employee is the combination of work and private life
problematic, lacks a second opportunity to develop themselves, a third too little autonomy and
a fourth little social support. Thus employees, but also self-employed, a powerful tool
for oneself to indicate at what level the work has to be adjusted so demotivation, illness or
premature failures can be tackled preventively.
It is the employee (or self), which the owner of the result of the measurement of the operating power is,
not the employer. The employee decides, if appropriate in consultation with the prevention and
union representation, to desired and / or appropriate adjustments in the workplace to
cards to the employer. Whether these adjustments can be realized, of course, is the subject of a
dialogue between employee and employer. (F, V, B)
More room for reasonable accommodation in the workplace.
The government supports companies in the implementation of reasonable accommodation in the workplace for people
with disabilities. Green also calls for reasonable concessions to religious minorities in the workplace.
If they constitute a disproportionate burden on the employer negotiated adjustments are
added value for successful labor market integration of minority groups. (F)
People want to work if their job takes account of their working ability.
These qualitative careers people want to sustain longer. Longer working we realize through during the
career regularly to take account of the operating power of people. And if necessary to finish
vote on the capabilities, needs and wishes of the employee. This keeps people healthy and
goesting work. Only this recipe takes the career effectively longer. The classic recipe for the
career extension and forcing people to retire later in inappropriate jobs, only creates
an inflow into the disability. (F)
CLA's also about working smarter.
The social dialogue between workers and employers not only in the future wages, but above all
also 'work smarter' or how the work can be organized in a better way. Social
partners negotiate much more in the future on how healthy and challenging work organizations
to be Realised. Where the screening power of the work indicates that an above-average number of
employees in an organization are experiencing similar problems, employers seek solutions through dialogue
worker representation. For employers who refuse to invest in the improvement of the
quality of work a sanctions mechanism is developed. The minister just sign
interprofessional agreements (IPAs) and collective agreements that convey a clear vision of how the quality of the
(walking) jobs will be improved. There is no single answer as to how that should be done. Quality of
work has many aspects. In sector A work can be improved by better aligning leave
the needs of workers, appealed B by reviewing their responsibilities, and in consultation with Company C
to adjust. (F)
Every five years, an employee is entitled to external career.
In classical career an employee worked during forty years of full time in the same job for the same
employer. The self mostly remained independent throughout their career. Increasingly
careers have a varied pattern and employees if they need advice on job function
change (sometimes new, sometimes in the same organization) or by statute. Whether one chooses at any given
time for relaxation. We provide all workers a paid opinion of an outside government
career every five years. Career counseling is a right, not a duty. The VDAB and Actiris need in this
take up their role and issued with adequate resources. Sensitizing the number of workers must be a
enlisting increase in this service. (V, B)

CAREER OF A VIABLE TEMPO: CAREER IS OVER
WORKING ALONE
19. Time credit strengthens the autonomy time employees.
Green wants to increase the autonomy time of all employees. The creation of a time fund is an instrument to
to achieve this. The time fund gives everyone the right to import temporarily during the course of his or her life career
and withdrawing from the labor market and to devote himself to other activities, according to his / her priorities
that moment :
• Unconditional right to a time credit of five years over the entire working career. The first year may already
be introduced after 18 months of work done.
• Smoother formulas than the current capabilities 4/5 or half-time.
• A time credit also for singles and single-parent families by increasing financial support.
• A uniform statute for all employees, regardless of status or sector.
7

20.

21.

22.

23.

24.

For self-employed analog time fund is created.
To fellow workers not to load and distribute work better for more people is necessary
linking a replacement duty on time credit from three consecutive months. (F)
A strengthening of care.
People need to pave over the working life raft time to care for people in their environment and
for the education of children. Therefore, the strengthening of systems for care takes priority. In place
a fragmented regulatory regime (thematic leave, time credit) comes one easily accessible
care system with two branches: one branch "nurture and care for children" and a branch "care for the sick and
heavily dependent persons. In the first branch evolves the current time credit for young children to a
child-related law. The time for care will no longer be subtracted from the time for other important
activities during their careers (such as the time credit for training). In the second branch to the existing evolves
fixed packet of time for care duties step by step in the direction of an insurance policy logic. Within that
logic we give care according to the (proven) emergency presents itself. Those who want or need caregiving gets
more time rights. This can be provided that an audit of the care time needed by a paramedical team. The right to
leave through death, we extend to one week. (F)
Strengthen leave for new parents.
We make work-life easier. We extend paternity leave for employees
from ten to fifteen obliged to take days. We encourage more men to the parental leave
to take. When two partners or ex-partners in co-parenting any parental leave of four months
record, they get together for three additional months. A single parent with no co-parenting gets a
additional parental leave of seven months. For each child is a parental leave for every month
benefit to be at the current level.
For the self-employed, we want to fully achieve this leave, every child is entitled to
equal attention and time. We carry out a paternity leave for self-employed workers and expand the
maternity leave from. If desired, which is partially in the form of a temporary replacement power or
a packet service checks. We are working on a parental leave for the self-employed.
In case of illness of the child's parents can take time off from their work to take care of the child. This
regulation may be included until the child is 12 years old. These days can also be included when the
daycare mom / dad is sick or the child should visit a doctor. After seven days you have a previously
medical certificate required.
These proposals apply to all parents, including foster, adoptive and meeouders (LGBT). (F)
Telecommuting makes the employee in charge of location and time use.
More and more people are not dependent on a fixed workplace to do their job properly. She
can work not only in the office but also in the kitchen, on the train or even the pub. Also
when we perform the work is always recorded less rigid. The danger of too narrow confines
between work and leisure is in the new work unmistakable, but it simultaneously creates for many
people an opportunity. Greater autonomy over where and when people work, contribute to a
better work with other commitments. The new work is also in the field of sustainability
smart, because the potential of avoided commuting is particularly high. The government is the new
work by providing support telecentres and coworkingplaatsen, to examine the possibility
how telework can be stimulated fiscally, to include telework as an important alternative in the
mobility policy and the new work to promote maximum for civil servants. Essential
interest in these new methods is the protection of privacy. (V, B)
Retiring after 42 years or 65 years. Who wants to work after retirement.
Working after 65 years should be. Therefore there should be a decent scheme for 'retired
employees "who are temporarily unemployed or sick. (F)
The statutory Sunday rest should be respected up and protected.
Sunday rest is not only an individual right, but also a collective good.

WHO CARE FOR TEMPORARY FAILURE
25. No medical anklet for sick employees.
Green wants the house arrest which was introduced by Minister De Coninck abolish for sick employees. Patient
employees must not only be controlled but also real support for their physical,
improve social and psychological health. The best medicine often consists of a good mix of rest
indoor and outdoor activity, supplemented as necessary with medication and other medical care. (F)
26. Burnout we treat in the same way as an accident.

8

27.

28.

29.

30.

31.

Labor organizations put people under increasing pressure, the risk of mental health problems
is increasing. The number of people that this is temporarily not usable because of burnout
increases. Burnout is undeniably related to stress in the work environment and increases the chance
in an industrial accident. Reason why green wants to treat a burn-out a similar method
as the one for the approach to an industrial accident. If the suspicion is confirmed
Factors in the work environment with responsibility for the case of burnout, then carry out the (internal)
prevention a deeper (calamity) research and formulate proposals for improvements
To prevent similar cases. A detailed report is drawn up and the labor inspectorate and the
external service or occupational sent. (F)
Vigilant for the link between stress and accidents.
Green suggests that the External Service for Prevention and Protection at Work (ESPPW) through the
officer and in consultation with the internal prevention and the personnel manager
Specific mention must make up the Committee for Prevention and Protection at Work (CPPW) how many
cases of work-related stress and burnout have occurred during the past period and / or this one
structural problem that must be addressed in the company. Green also proposes that each
accident determining whether psychosocial aspects thereof to the cause of the accident
Situated have. Also, all accidents involving work-related stress or burnout issues a
role played will be discussed at the Committee (CPPW). (F)
Prevention services pay more attention to the prevention of accidents of employees during
their travel to and from work.
The number of accidents in the workplace there is a declining trend. On the way to and from work takes
accidents not finished, however. Commuting accidents are a misfit in the welfare of
businesses, because actually they do not fall under the Welfare Act. With the result that prevention is
involved in this process, there is not sufficient. Green also wants to prevent these accidents by
prevention services are handled. What should soon lead to a more sustainable and safe
mobility behavior. (F, V, B)
The inspection agencies among crew tackled.
Labour inspectorates remain for decades understaffed. For example, a company in Belgium but average
an inspection visit to the 21.5 year! Unions and employers together asked for a doubling of the
number of inspectors unsafe workplaces can be effectively addressed. ILO tapped in Belgium
2012 on the fingers for these structural understaffing. Green wants to quickly repeatedly but
never realized promise to make man the inspection with 177 inspectors. Eventually, the
number of inspectors be increased to one inspector per 10,000 workers, so the Belgium's norm
International Labour Organization respects. (F)
Insurers approaches that fobbed victims of industrial accidents.
More and more reports of accidents are denied by insurers. An employee must in this very
What luck. One insurer decides quickly and to refuse a declaration for other reasons
than the other. Employees may not be the victims of this arbitrariness. Therefore, the Fund carries on
Accidents at work overseeing refused accidents, and effective sanctions to be taken against
insurers who knowingly fobbed victims. (F)
A support budget may not disappear immediately as the chronically ill or people with
Guests go back to work.
Persons with disabilities or those with a chronic illness who dare to take the step to work
often financially no better off than before. For example, because the income replacement allowance
disappears as they get started. Therefore, a sufficiently high support (sbudget) continue to exist which
wage and benefit supplements when deciding to go to work. (V, B)

TALENT FOR EVERYONE TO APPRECIATE THE WORKPLACE
32. Five days job-related training per year for all employees.
Invest in training of staff is important. This keeps the skills of employees is maintained and
employability guaranteed in the future. On the current labor market training policy
companies controlled by imposing a volume of investment in training. This keeps certain groups,
such as older workers, however, more than others excluded from education and show them accelerate their
decrease employment opportunities. It is easier to count in training days. Therefore, we give each employee a
entitled to a minimum five-day job-related training per year. For businesses, this is a budget neutral
adaptation, for five days of training per employee are equivalent to measure the difficult 1.9 percent
mandatory investment in training that applies now. The right to training time can be guaranteed
9

33.

34.

35.

36.

37.

38.

in sectoral collective agreements, where each sector can be taken on how this training right is concretely
implemented. (F)
Develop broad portfolio of acquired skills.
People learn every day in many different contexts: the family, the workplace, the neighborhood or friends.
In addition, they acquire knowledge and develop skills that they can later come in handy. Competences
should be better documented and archived in portfolios. Allows insight into their own skills
people stronger and more self-aware and encourages them to learn more, regardless of where they those competencies
have acquired or will deploy effectively. (V, B)
Supporting employers to introduce a modern career.
Employers can rely on their advice on staffing and skills policy. Sectoral
training funds are perfectly placed organizations for developing this kind of advice. The government closes
covenants with sectoral training funds on the expansion of their service in this direction. (V, B)
Foster a fair employment.
The government sets an example in government departments and regulatory acts in the private sector. On all
job levels, people with a migration background proportional to work. The government closes
result commitments and build on social and diverstiteitsclausules with targets
procurement and grants. (F, V, B)
Zero tolerance for discrimination.
Addressing discrimination in the labor market remains lax. Sensitization is insufficient. Discrimination should also
actively traced and punished. This is possible by carrying out field tests and violation fining. The
inspectorates get more hands and teeth to oversee the rules. Practical tests have a very
efficient system and have legal recognition. Systematically carried out these tests. Business
which here only to score a first sensitized and warned a second time follow
implacable sanctions. (F, V, B)
The glass ceiling has to disappear everywhere.
In places where the under-representation of women in senior positions is blatant, such as the
academia and the high judiciary, we chose for gender quotas. This applies equally to
presidents, directors and managers of (semi-) government institutions. Selection criteria are more transparent
and made gender sensitive. In places where women already have access to higher positions we choose
for self-regulation. We ask organizations to formulate concrete objectives for a better
gender balance and to show how they will comply with the monitor them. A number of good practices in
'masculine' sectors show that targeted, positive actions make a difference. (F, V, B)

The








labor market.










Youngsters

the labor market.
required.
10


43.
44.
45.
46.
47.
48.
11
Why are we making the premiums received by companies in the recruitment of young people, depending on the
conjuncture. The premium and / or wage subsidy is high at high youth unemployment and restricted where
youth unemployment is low.
For groups with a structural disadvantage in the labor market, we do not follow this principle. Who in each
difficult situation on or flows on the labor market in each situation benefit from support. Therefore
for example, remain low-skilled also enjoy support from a favorable economic winds. (V, B)
Young low-skilled unemployed get more guidance.
On the current labor market skilled young unemployed more likely to be accompanied by the VDAB than
unskilled young unemployed. Green wants to reverse this situation. The weakest groups in the labor
should the government get more support than the stronger groups. (V, B)
Young people do not rush to bring the labor market.
Young people who quickly an inadequate job (should) take linger longer in a job for which they
have high education. Therefore, the search behavior of young people must not be done hastily. Shortening
the time in which an appropriate relationship can be searched for up to 3 months unemployment and the extension of the
waiting allowances for young people up to 12 months after graduation was in that context, bad decisions from the current
Government team. Green wants to repeal the two measures. (F, V, B)
A worthy activation of jobseekers.
Green is in favor of a more family friendly notion of a "suitable job". Now
jobseekers in the name of the 'activation' forced their family situation and care needs aside
slide. Green wants the specific care and family situation of a job seeker an element is
defining a fitting relation. (V, B)
The abolition of the increased degression of unemployment benefits.
Everyone is entitled to a decent income. It can not be that those who are long-term unemployed, falls back on a
payment under the European poverty line. The gradual reduction in the payment of unemployment benefits
long-term unemployed should be reduced. Indeed, that measure is mainly a
shift brought by the aid granted by the RVA to the CPAS. Job search does not work better
if you are poor. On the contrary, poverty reduces the opportunities for sustainable employment. The existing
monitoring and control of unemployed is large enough where necessary direct and abuse
sanction. (F)
The living wage is not unemployment.
Who receives the living wage can not be confined in a classic activation pathway. That
does not mean that the door to the labor market for people with a living wage is closed. People who have a
living wage received may be fully employed by for example using article
60 of the Social Welfare Act. Together with other partners (VDAB, second chance education, open school, etc.), it can
CPAS for people who receive a living wage for working out an appropriate path that their chances of long
maximizes term.
This also means that people with a living wage not be sued for in return
for the benefit community tasks to perform. When people are employed to work for the
government appreciates the government that effort as a full preliminary process to work. (V, B)
Guidance for employers in filling long vacancies.
The paradox of the labor market which on the one hand many job seekers find a job and also provides many
vacancies are not filled, mainly currently being addressed by activating job seekers,
them to train and encourage vacancies to go in. This guidance can be improved. But also a
policy will be necessary, which activates the vacancies. Where necessary, the recruitment threshold should be lower
and / or should be intensively monitored candidates during a training period. Therefore, the working
employment agency a comprehensive approach for vacancies, similar to that for job seekers. The first
four months employers seek autonomy for candidates to fill the vacant position. If the
job after four months is still open, suitable candidates by the employment agency
offered. The employer shall be assisted in filling the vacancy. Does the Job
after a year is still open, the employment officer the company will offer an appropriate candidate
which is supervised and is on probation for three months. With a comprehensive approach for jobseekers and
jobs we can find a more effective solution for shortage of jobs and the paradox of the
labor help solve. (V, B)
An easy target policy.
The list of labor market measures is far too long. The transfer of the target group policy of the federal
the regional authorities have a unique opportunity to make this policy administratively strong. We
therefore purchase after transferring the confusing tangle of wage cost subsidies off and replaced by the 49th.
50.
51.
52.
53.
target group (low-skilled, cultural minorities, young people, the elderly, etc.) through a single
labor cost subsidy.
Tailor-made for people with a large distance to the labor market.
For people with a large distance to the labor market is a general support through
wage cost subsidies are often insufficient, and additional support is necessary to move to the
create employment. The policy must be supplemented with additional elements such as wage premiums
training and guidance in the workplace and an adaptation of the workplace.
For the most vulnerable groups is an important social and participatory policy to the forefront, with
sufficient resources for a more targeted guidance tailored in a local context. A strong commitment
of local governments is indispensable. Inclusion policies for these people starts from a broader
vision of participation in society and appreciates each person in his abilities. Together with various partners working well and through various forms of employment, training and volunteering can these people
experiment and learn, and gradually eliminating structural barriers. Green indicates integral trajectories
size (such as procedures, according to the W² methodology or through work) a structural position in the placement.
(V, B)
All companies, persons with a distance to the labor employ.
The bespoke decree aims to promote the advancement of persons with a distance to the labor market, but
this only involves companies employing at least five disabled workers. Green believes that companies
which have a limited number of target group employees to work equally entitled to support as
companies that collectively employ disabled workers. Only in this way can be
target group employees are effectively integrated into the labor market. (V, B)
Who works with disabled workers must be able to operate sustainably.
Sheltered workshops have a structural place and the necessary stability for sustainable social
to undertake. (V, B)
People with disabilities also need their support as they work.
Persons with disabilities who dare take the step towards work are often financially no better off than before.
Therefore (a) sufficient (high) support (sbudget) continue to wage and benefit supplements
when deciding to go to work. (V, B)
Alignment of the shortage occupations in the real labor.
Bottleneck professions which a quantitative deficit are opened up their labor markets for
migrant workers from inside and outside Europe. A flexible procedure with fewer criteria and thresholds than
is currently the case, delivers this work cards. (V, B)
FAIR LABOUR SAYS NO TO fraudsters
54. More missions to tackle unfair practices.
Inspection services should be strengthened. This is important to prevent unfair practices in the labor market
actual address. More staff is needed to carry out adequate inspection visits in the battle
against illegal employment, social security fraud and discrimination. (F)
55. Social exclusion dumping.
Who works in Belgium is paid to the Belgian conditions. European legislation guarantees these
basic rules, and excludes competition between workers in terms of wages and social protection. (E)
56. disguised or indirect employees.
In the fight against tax and social fraud is important that bogus and sham workers
get correct status. This struggle is focused right now on a limited number of sectors (such as the
construction and transport sectors). Green wants all sectors are encouraged to work on a relationship
to arrange correct way. (F)
THE IMPORTANCE OF PARTICIPATION: IN A GOOD JOB IS FOR YOU
Listen
57. The upgrading of the annual performance review.
We invite the social partners and governments (for public services) in order to ensure that
All employees receive an annual performance review. Discussing the work capacity (see above)
would be able to get a place in such an annual performance review. In dialogue and employees must
employers at that time the tasks and the organization time to adapt or reaffirm. At the
One employee can result in a more family-friendly schedule, with another employee in a
challenging tasks. The working time is an important point on the agenda of this meeting. Employees
12 can submit their desire to devote sufficient time during a short or long period of time to other plans
by the shorter workweek with corresponding loss of earnings. Or they can improve working capital
by means of a modified schedule, for example, that corresponds to the school hours. (F, V, B)
58. Importance of social dialogue.
Green thinks it is important that between workers and employers to collective level agreements
made concerning the employment relationship. This social dialogue has its own dynamics, and should be as autonomous as possible
function. (F)
59. Right to strike preserved.
The right to strike of workers is a fundamental right which is all too often constrained or under
put pressure. Collective bargaining without any collective action is tantamount to collective begging. The
Imposing penalties on strikers, after granting unilateral petitions to the civil
judge denies the right to strike. Green advocates legislation and, better yet, a collective
appointment to exclude the use of that procedure strikes. (F)
60. Trade Union Function in SMEs.
The right to trade union activity in the SMEs too little recognition and even opposed. Employees in
SMEs have a right to their own trade union delegation, possibly in the form of an umbrella
representation that can occur for employees of various SMEs. (F)
MOVEMENTS TO AND FROM WORK IN A SUSTAINABLE WAY
61. create a mobility budget workers a wise choice.
We carry a mobility budget. We do not mean the sum of existing measures
the company as a dominant element, but a new tax system that all modes of transport
treats equivalent. Each employee is entitled to this budget in the form of a tax credit, which
is included in the payroll. This amount depends on the commuting distance and corresponds to
the price of an annual season ticket for public transport. But who opt exclusively for sustainable modes
has topped a right to a "smart choice bonus. Who chooses the bike will be more in this system
about love than anyone retains the leased car.
62. We encourage more sustainable commuter travel behavior to employers side:
a. Following the example of Brussels is a company transport (with evaluation) obligatory. (V)
b. Investments for cycling employees are 200% deductible for the employer if
professional expenses (bicycle parking, showers and dressing area, business cycles). VAT for purchase
business cycle can be fully recovered. (F)
c. Costs for carpooling are deductible.
d. The deductibility of purchased company cars we make depends on the ecoscore. And also the
deductibility of fuel costs we reduce. (F)
13 SUSTAINABLE ECONOMY
VISION
Going Green for economic development, social justice and ecological
balance hand in hand and together perfectly. It is possible to have a healthy economy in a
build that takes into account the limits of our planet, focussing on individuals, real
creates prosperity and social justice. Indeed, it is the only way to
to breathe new life into economy, create a lot of new jobs and new crises to
avoid. However thoroughly disrupted in the current economic model is the balance.
We therefore need new recipes and an appropriate framework for the big and small
challenges of today and go tomorrow.
Luckily we leave here not zero. Everywhere there bubbling inspiring initiatives.
Entrepreneurs looking for solutions to major societal challenges.
Technological and social innovations offer new opportunities.
Cooperative and social entrepreneurship are on the rise. New business and
cooperation models such as the use and part economics, peer-to-peer projects
shared and multiple value, circular economy and climate neutral
companies show how things can be different. The concept of a sustainable and green economy
by more and more actors in civil society, business, trade unions and
policymakers picked up as a promising track. The question is not so much "or"
we have to greening the economy, but how deeply and structurally it can do and how
we are best to do it. With ringing declarations and what we will be patching in
any case not come. Clean air buy abroad or some noncommittal
experiments in the margin will help get us nowhere. Current stop-and-go policy
provides a very shaky investment climate which both mechanisms
on subsidies lead to unsustainable growth models and the budding
sectors remain the same spot or fall back into each other even before they left well
are. Only a stable and decisive government action is necessary
create economies of scale and a global movement towards sustainability in hallway
put.
Green wants to take the lead and really work on a sustainable transformation
and modernization of our economic fabric. We not only about the
industry, we want to turn into a sustainable local manufacturing industry, but also about
all other sectors, such as social profit, the trade and services, tourism
sector, the financial sector and so on. Only if we join hands together and move forward
look we will manage to create a leader in Belgium in the field of
sustainability and the challenges can proceed with confidence.
For Green, it is clear that transition is needed: we want a shift from linear to
circular, from short to long term, from quantity to quality, from throwaway culture
and consumption towards sustainability, from fossil to renewable energy,
waste to care, of alienation and exclusion to inclusion, from
irresponsible profit for responsible entrepreneurship, from ownership to
use. We do not just want a green economy, but also a hot economy, which
cooperation and solidarity are key.
The sustainability of the economy poses for Green still the backbone of the economy
policy. It does not stay with us will be achieved with a "gadget" which occasionally out of the closet.
This means, that we re bargaining model (r) to calibrate a
social dialogue ecological model. Civil society organizations with expertise in the field of
sustainable development and / or environment given a structural place within this renewed and
14 widened social dialogue. It also means that economic support measures,
innovation policy and funding instruments to be adjusted in that direction.
On the basis of a healthy economy are naturally healthy companies. The
therefore goes without saying that we want to encourage and strengthen entrepreneurship by
creating a favorable business climate. We want to especially start-ups and sustainable
SMEs provide a boost. After all, they are at the heart of our economy and
provide more than half of the jobs. Lower labor costs, administrative
simplification,
approachable
Business Centres
and
simplification
from
employment measures are but a few examples of how our
companies want to strengthen. At the same time we are focusing on a preventive
company policy to reduce the record number of bankruptcies and we provide a
net for bankrupts who have acted in good faith.
We invest heavily in sustainable, community and social innovation. Durable
use of raw materials, materials and energy, the common thread for the economy.
Corporate social responsibility, whereby companies in a comprehensive and
profound way ecological, social and economic objectives interlocking,
increasingly becomes the norm. The economy we want to permeate with the basic principles of
the cooperative business model: cooperation, participation, democracy and
transparency.
We go all out for a use, sharing and collaboration economy. Auto parts,
cohousing, INJURY, new product-service combinations, cooperative entrepreneurship,
peer-to-peer production and co-creation are just a few examples. Ondernemingsen consumption models based on use and share may lead to an
absolute decrease in consumption of raw materials and reduce the pressure on the environment considerably.
Cooperative methods sometimes bring the economy closer to citizens and have
both economic and social terms an important added value. And also the
social economy and local service economy are an important part of the
various economic landscape.
The thorough renovation and greening our economy will certainly bring a suit
new jobs. But they will also lead to shifts within and between sectors,
changes in job content and new skills required. It is therefore
important that care is taken that this is done within the framework of a just
transition. Employees will be able to adapt to changing
conditions whereby they can integrate new skills. A proactive
training and skills policy will contribute to achieving decent work for
everybody. The transition requires the maintenance of an efficient social security system. For all this
to allow a continuous social dialogue is needed and will also trade unions
play an essential role.
Economic and social progress we finally define not only in
terms of growth of gross domestic product (GDP). Indeed, there is an ever-increasing
consensus on the fact that GDP is not a good indicator for our prosperity and well-being
measured. Yet this still central in political and social discussions,
making the policy constantly on the wrong footing is. Green wants herein
bring change and policies also rely on other indicators.
15 PROPOSALS
REALLY WORK TO CREATE A SUSTAINABLE ECONOMY
1.
Social model is social dialogue ecological model. (V, B, F)
This renewed consultation model aims for a good balance between social, environmental and economic
objectives and the motor for a just transition to sustainability of the economy. This ecological
enriching the consultation model is reflected in the composition and functioning of the existing advisory and
consultation, the themes dealt with here, and the greater involvement of the
CSOs.
2. Sustainable transformation of the economy is at the heart of economic policy. (V, B, F)
The sustainable transformation of our economy is drawn into the center of economic policy and
is no longer limited to experiments in the margin.
• For a large number of economic sectors or domains are detailed and
result-oriented hiking trails developed and implemented the transition to a sustainable
accelerating economy. For a number of sectors or domains (eg. In the context of the Flemish
transition arenas "Sustainable Housing and Building" and "Sustainable Materials Management" and
Brussels alliance Employment-Environment) has already been working in this direction and there
continue to build on. It is important that this approach will be extended to other
sectors and domains, and that this will be the core of economic policy. The
Progress will be measured on the basis of (whether or not sector-specific)
sustainability indicators.
• Structural and wide consultation with various relevant civil society organizations (employers,
employees, environmental, consumer and development organizations, ...) is necessary here
as well as good coordination between the various levels of government (federal and regional).
• The agreements and instruments go beyond what in mainstream programs as VIA or EU
2020 is imposed and be resolute translated into concrete and result-oriented measures.
For example, the route trails and sustainability criteria will be a key tool in economic
policy. This means that economic support and financing instruments,
innovation, licensing, support measures for restructuring and
Change, etc. are coupled thereto. The Walloon and Brussels 'Alliance Work and Environment', the
Marshallplan2.vert Walloon and Dutch "green deals" are good examples for a
such an approach.
3. Also in Europe puts up a Green New Deal. (E)
Green wants Europe to work makes a truly sustainable economic recovery, with the European
financing channels and programs are invested massively in the sustainability transition.
4. Priority for sustainable local manufacturing industry. (V, B, F, E)
It is important that there remains a sustainable manufacturing industry in our country as much as possible
turn into more 'local' economic cycles. A more decentralized economy is finally
resilient in the world of tomorrow. To this end, a profound transformation required of the manufacturing industry.
• A policy that ensures fair pricing of the ecological costs throughout the
production and bet on raw material and energy saving, reusing and recycling will be shorter
stimulate economic cycles.
• A policy that places greater demands on the design of products, including focusing on
recoverability and modular design also means a strong boost for a
more locally oriented economy. Products are designed and manufactured that they
can be repaired easily and at the end of their economic life simple
can be taken apart. Thus the raw materials or component reuse or
be recycled.
• The economic policy support and innovation are geared to the anchoring
these sustainable manufacturing focused on shorter chains.
• Promising new technologies and business models, such as "additive manufacturing" (the layer
a low building products, with material efficiency, waste reduction and local production
are central), digitally controlled production, high closing cycles and industrial
ecology be encouraged and further developed. These SMEs can play an important role
play.
16 5.
6.
7.
8.
17

• The Flemish "Made Different" program, the Strategic Research and Manufacturing Industry
the imade platform for local production tailored to be strengthened in this direction.
Toprunnermodel stringent requirements for environmentally friendly technologies and products. (V, B, F)
The philosophy behind the Toprunnermodel is that leaders are rewarded and the most sustainable product or
best technology over time the new norm. These standards are progressing over time and long
known in advance. Producers can then anticipate them in their research programs and their
investment. Who does better than the standard, extra rewards and the most sustainable product or
best technology over time the new standard. Foreign examples (the Japanese 'Top
runner programs in the fields of energy efficiency, for example.) show that this is a very effective approach is to
realize green breakthroughs.
These toprunnerproducten also be fostered by smart public procurement and to appeal
gain funding from the TINA fund (an investment fund in PMV
for the financing of innovation with strategic potential).
Settling for the use and part economics. (V, B, F, E)
Use and share instead of own, which is the motto for the sustainable and circular economy
future. We fully support all developments in this area. Too many products are increasingly looking a
shorter lives or be used carelessly because they are still available. Companies services
offer (eg. the service 'warmth' or 'office') instead of selling only products are much better
able to maintain the raw materials in a closed circuit, so that there is an absolute decrease is possible in the
amount of valuable raw materials that we still throw away. It is ensured that there is always a
well balanced market between supplier and customer.
• Research programs into new product-service combinations therefore deserve broad support.
• A product policy opting for recoverability, modular concepts, complete
recoverability of all commodities, driven by ecological quality and return obligations
supports the use and part economy and circular thinking.
• Models such as car sharing, bicycle sharing, derdebetalerssytemen, leases are much stronger
expanded. This example also be promoted for horticultural or job material,
kitchen appliances, children's bicycles, toys, ...
• Initiatives in the social economy (eg. Circuit Shops) may play a role in the development of
an intricate network of lending and recovery services.
• Another policy on intellectual property, which opts for more commons than foreclosure
of ownership will also give an impetus to a more sustainable innovation
Transparency as a lever for sustainability and democracy. (F, E)
Both are aimed at the European and Belgian level for greater transparency and
information in the field of sustainability of enterprises and products, so that citizens,
consumers, employees, businesses and government can make informed choices when buying
a product or service or enter into partnerships with companies.
In addition to a European directive in the field of sustainability reporting and its transposition in Belgium
legislation, Green also wants to impose more extensive obligations in the field of information (eg. on the
in terms of life span, the place of production of the product, ...). Also, tags and labels can play a role
to ensure that consumers can make better choices based on sustainability characteristics. This
however, should not lead to a confusing jumble of labels, as is currently the case. There is therefore
work on the harmonization and streamlining of labels within a coherent model for sustainability,
is countered with improper use. This happens both at Belgian and European level.
A proactive policy competence with regard to greening. (V, B)
The transition to a green economy jobs change of content and people to new
acquire competences. Custom green training programs are needed. This is to avoid that the lack
of green expertise leads to the creation of additional shortage occupations. This adaptation and adjustment
are usually minor. It mainly comes down to supplement skills acquired.
We expect industry funds an increasing training demand with green pathways.
VDAB and Actiris we expect more efforts to educate job seekers to green jobs and
jobs of the future. In this way, bottlenecks in the labor market can be more efficiently
addressed. More generally, one can say that the thorough renovation and greening our
economy should be within the framework of a just transition. This means that
employees must be able to adapt to changing circumstances. Who are given new
abilities to integrate. Lifelong learning should contribute to achieving decent work for
everybody. The transition requires the maintenance of an efficient social security system. In order to make all this possible,
a continuous social dialogue is needed.

9. Collective redundancies due to combat short-term profit maximization. (F)
Green wants to encourage companies to give more importance to the continuation and development of
the medium-term business activity over the short-term profit. Practices that
companies that already received a government support package, on collective redundancies despite adequate
profits, hoping to increase their profit margins up, we want to go as far as possible. To this end,
Green filed a bill that makes it possible for such undertakings all State
(tax deductions, employment support, ...) that they have received in the last five years to recover.
Green does not want to use this procedure for troubled and where such
Restructuring is necessary because of the economic prospects, or if the company has sufficient
has invested in training its employees.
10. Prosperity and well-being measure better. (F, V, B)
The Gross Domestic Product is not a good indicator to measure real wealth. To prosperity sustainably
approach and evaluate the welfare of people, other indicators should be given a central place. Therefore
we advocate a policy that relies on a wide range of indicators that three essential facets of
Measuring the social, the ecological, social and economic. Quite a few of such indicators
already exist and are periodically calculated, such as, for example, the ISEW (Index for Sustainable Economic
Prosperity) and GPI (Genuine Progress Indicator / Indicator for real progress). The government determines
ambitious targets for each of these indicators and targets used as a basis for her
policy.

ENTREPRENEURSHIP AND PROMOTE STRENGTHENING
11. Administrative simplification. (F, V, B)
Green wants to support SMEs and freelancers through far-reaching administrative simplification. From lot
international audits turns red tape which is to be the main point of pain
Belgian business environment. We want to tackle this by a legislative simplification, the
Checking of the administrative impact of new legislative initiatives, and a more efficient use
further expansion of the intersection user databases, the creation of a one-stop shop for
administrative interactions between business and government and effective e-government, which
many services as possible and administrative obligations expired digital and automatic.
The merging of environmental and planning permission for an integrated environmental permit
Green is an important step in the right direction. Green wants to ensure that the implementation of this
not only leads to shorter lead times, reduce administrative burdens and more
legal, but also to better quality permits. This means that all planning,
environmental and mobility issues in the assessment are concerned. There is also an evaluation system
linked to the granting of a permanent environmental permit. For Green, it is also essential that
early in the procedure are adequate and accessible participation and involvement opportunities. Timely
Participation is especially important in complex infrastructure projects with significant regional
implications.
12. Local business houses provide better support for start-ups and
SMEs. (V, B)
Current measures, funding channels and financing channels for SMEs are not sufficiently known and
also very complex. Therefore Green wants to make transparent the measures.
The actors with information or support function (Enterprise Agency, Unizo, business centers,
Accountants and Tax, local councils and the like), we want closer together
Tuning in connection with the rollout of accessible local business houses. Entrepreneurs houses
adopt a tailored approach and an inclusive approach with special attention to stimulating and
Supporting ethnic and female entrepreneurship.
13. The financial instruments of the government are effectively used as a lever to
sustainable economy and be accessible for start- ups, SMEs and sustainable
frontrunners. (V, B)
The tangle of investment and financing instruments of the government becomes stronger streamlined,
made more accessible and more focused on the sustainability of the economy. In Flanders, it i.a.
on the Participation Company Flanders (PMV), VPM (VPM), the
Trasformatie and Innovation Acceleration Fund (TINA), the Flemish Innovation Fund (Vinnof) ARKimedes, the
Limburg Investment Company (LRM), the Flemish Energy Company (VEB) etc. The transfer of the
Federal Participation Fund to the regions this is the ideal time. The focus will be on the

18

14.

15.

16.

17.

18.

19.

facilitating access to finance for start-ups, SMEs and sustainable leaders and more efficient use
of financial flows as leverage for the sustainability of the economy.
Prepayment fee limited to two months, even for current contracts. (F)
The redemption fee is the sum that the bank requires if a customer wants to pay off his loan prematurely because
elsewhere he can get a lower interest rate. The compensation jeopardizes the survival of SMEs. They become
literally held hostage by their bank that claims 30 to 40 per cent of the outstanding amount for a loan
refinance or to house them elsewhere. With the new rules it is legally limited to
up to 6 months additional interest on new loans up to € 1 million. But these changes apply only
for new contracts.
Green wants to limit the reinvestment allowance for two months, even for current contracts.
Corporate tax rates lower through preferential tax regimes to restrict. (F, EU)
The growing number of preferential tax regimes ensures that a party of the wealthiest
enterprises can almost completely avoid their fair tax contribution, while many others, especially SMEs, a third
of their profit for tax. Green wants to reduce corporate tax rates to a level that
equitable for SMEs. We do this budget-neutral by eliminating or mitigating as many tax
favor regimes.
At European level, we want to harmonize the corporate tax much more far-reaching.
Blind to intelligently subtract interest, with increased discounts for SMEs. (F)
Green wants to reform the existing blind interest deductions (notional and ordinary) to intelligent
interest deductions. An intelligent deduction, unlike the current interest deductions, not blind to the
purposes of investment. Thus, investments in job creation, innovation and eco-efficiency to a higher
percentage deducted than traditional investments. Purely financial structures would fall back to zero
per cent. To the business environment for SMEs, we also want to strengthen the increased discount for SMEs
strengthen, subject to job creation, innovation and eco-efficiency.
Strengthen the residential and commercial centers.
We want better control of the implantation of operations of businesses in core and periphery, where we
greater account of spatial planning and mobility. The lack of control on the implantation of
wholesale business and shopping centers creates a lot of frustration for small businesses and local governments.
The regionalization of the law on business establishment provides this opportunity.
A preventive business.
Green wants a stronger policy to prevent bankruptcies among SMEs. Smoother bank lending,
especially for short-term loans and tax measures that encourage citizens to invest in SMEs
(like the win-win loan) provide SMEs with much needed oxygen. In addition, Green favors a rapid
and thoughtful implementation of the European directive on combating late payments. Provides that Directive
in a maximum payment period of 30 days, except for 60 days. The government as client needs
to set an example for respecting the maximum payment.
Springboard for bankrupts.
In the curative field Green advocates that a bankrupt must have clarity within a year of his situation.
Now you know some entrepreneurs take years if they fired any remaining debt after a
bankruptcy. In addition, we provide in cooperation with the Business Centres, support for
bankrupts who want to restart. Therefore bankrupts get a second and third chance, except
in case of a fraudulent bankruptcy. Furthermore, former employees of bankrupt companies
appropriate support and, if possible, be involved in starting up a new business
by the bankrupt former employer or on acquisition of the bankrupt company.

SUSTAINABLE INNOVATION ENGINE FOR CREATIVE TRANSITION
Investing in research and development (R & D) and innovation is crucial to breathe new life into the economy, to them
sustainability, new employment opportunities and to tap into our wealth and prosperity secure.
However, innovation is not "necessarily" good. The Schumpeterian concept of "creative destruction" does have
a positive connotation and refers to economic dynamism and a necessary innovation that benefits
to society. But innovation can lead as well to "destructive creation", where innovation is beneficial
to some, but at the expense of many. Think of the "innovative" financial products, or the giant
speed aging consumer and replaced with new versions (such as cell phones, iPads, ...) and
mainly encourage overconsumption and garbage disposal. Not to speak of the "innovations" in the
field of non-conventional oil and gaswinningen (exploitation of tar sand oil, oil exploration in the Arctic
Polar sea ...).
Green therefore wants to invest heavily in innovation, but we want those resources targeted use so that it effectively
contribute to the social and environmental challenges facing our society stands for.
19

20. We provide a budgetary growth path to take at the latest by 2020, the EU objective
at least 3% of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) to invest in research and development. This
means are used as much as possible as a function of the required durability transition.
(V, B, F)
We embed a budgetary growth path in which there are at least 2020 European 1% objective for public R & Oinvesteringen is realized. This means that the Flemish government average annual 150 million euro
additional investments. In addition to the 1% target for public R & D funds should also increase its business R & Oinspanningen the 2% target. To achieve the greatest possible synergy between public and
Business investment will develop a common plan.
These funds are directed towards sustainable innovation. By this we mean innovation
addressing key social and environmental challenges. This is not just about technology
innovations, but also includes social innovation, social innovation (innovation of work organization), and
new business models, including in the service sector and social profit. The relearning of relevant
old production and / or repair techniques that we have lost sight of the falls below. There is hereby a
applied clear evaluation framework, so that the invested funds also effectively towards more
go sustainability.
21. Sharper focus on sustainable technology sectors, regional specialization and industrial valorisation.
(V, B)
The currently fragmented innovation means we purposefully put on a number speerpuntsectoren- and
domains with great potential impact in terms of sustainability and in which Flanders and Brussels
have clear industrial assets. Here the focus is on regional specialization and clustering based
of existing strengths and is being sought with the European thematic priorities, so that
European resources can be used. Some examples of technology sectors: renewable energy,
sustainable mobility, sustainable chemistry, sustainable living and building, sustainable use of nanotechnology,
sustainable materials management and sustainable manufacturing, sustainable food, agro-ecology and the
healthcare sector. This focus translates into new, sustainable jobs with us.
22. Streamlining and simplification of research programs and innovation instruments so they
be more efficient and accessible, including for SMEs. (V, B)
The innovation landscape is currently an inaccessible tangle of programs, funding channels,
agencies, strategic and collective research, competency pooling, innovation hubs, etc.
There is a clear need for better streamlining, harmonization, simplification and increased transparency of
structures and instruments. One-stop shop will lower the threshold for SMEs and this integrated
projects possible.
23. Creating added value by enhancing collaboration and open innovation. (V, B)
We move away from the traditional model in which knowledge institutions only create knowledge, which then
Companies or other actors valorized. Green wants more leave from a broad
partnership, with different actors (universities, businesses, government, unions,
NGOs ...) while participating in the innovation process, each from their position, and from a continued
interacting together to create knowledge, develop and utilize. Also, SMEs and innovative start-ups are
resolutely involved in the innovation processes. Open innovation is the focus on knowledge sharing,
collaboration and the wide use of innovation. Not the defensive use of intellectual property, but a
logic platform for the dissemination of knowledge is the guiding principle. Again, we refer to the Brussels and
Walloon approach followed in the framework of the "Alliance of Work and Environment 'and the Walloon
Marshallplan2.vert.
24. A catch is used for demonstration and pilot projects. (V)
There is currently in the channel for the Flemish innovation support little attention to the step between the
basic research and the broad implementation phase. However, this step is crucial to the usefulness and
soundness of demonstrating an innovative technology or approach and to put them in the market and
possibly to export later. There is therefore a specific support framework will be developed in line
European regulations for the evaluation and funding of such demonstration and pilot projects.
25. The Flemish Council for Science and Innovation will remain as separate and independent strategic
Advisory exist, but gets a lighter and more dynamic structure and involves more stakeholders
and citizens through participatory innovation processes. (V)
Each year the Council also proposes, through a participatory process in which many stakeholders are involved, a
report on the most promising new technologies or social innovations with a large
potential impact on sustainability. Herein, both the Belgian and international top innovations
recorded.

20

MATERIALS AND SUSTAINABLE POWER IN RED THREAD FOR
LOW-CARBON ECONOMY
26. A sustainable energy and raw norm (V, B, F, E)
There is a need for sustainable energy and raw material standard, at the various levels. Which should lead
to an absolute reduction in the consumption of energy and raw materials. Binding targets should be
enshrined in programs like 2020 or VIA. As the sustainable management of resources also contributes
to the structural competitiveness of the economy, in addition, it is proposed an extension of the
scope of the 1996 law, which rests on three pillars: wage-work knowledge. There would now be the pillar "Sustainable
resource management "recover that must be analyzed annually thoroughly and systematically. Furthermore, there is
need for a 'greening' of the European Semester, including meeting that those objectives
be reflected in the national reform programs. In the context of route paths for the transition to
a sustainable economy for separate sectors and domains of social partners and other civil
actors record further goals.
27. Ecology Premiums (V)
The ecology premium was until recently a very successful investment leverage our companies not only
environmentally friendly, but also made kostencompetitiever. In 2011 caused increased regelneverij sure the
Using the premium was decimated. Green ecology premium will breathe a new life. Business
may submit three proposals per year instead of every three years. They are not tied to a
exhaustive list of technologies that may be eligible for a premium but must comply
with clear sustainability criteria and their proposal as for 2011 by the Flemish Institute
Technological Research (VITO) assessed on its merits.
28. Exit strategy incineration (V, B)
In order to move towards a sustainable cycle economy incineration minimized
be. We therefore put not only on material saving, reusing and recycling, but also on the
phasing out of incineration. To this end, we propose an immediate moratorium on further
waste incineration.
Residual waste Incinerators
be
formally
from
the
extracted green system.
An ambitious and realistic reduction scenario and strategy is developed to rest against incineration
2050 in Flanders and Brussels to be as good as superfluous and to reduce to a minimum. Finally
the waste incineration is subject to strict regulation in order to achieve a
optimal environmental and energy performance of the combustion park.
29. Built-in counteracting aging (E, F)
We require indication of the normal life of consumer goods. For a refrigerator would
for example, must be mentioned: 'Made for an average life of 9 years. For a
washer should read the inscription: "Made for an average of 1,800 washes. For a car:
"Manufactured for an average useful life of 12 years or 250,000 kilometers. This strengthens the position of the
users and consumers in the economy decelerates waste. Producers marketing products with deceptive
aging mechanisms brought on the market are administrative and criminal penalties. The
corresponding guarantee is related to the normal life of a product. Quality standards for
products (including a ban on "programmed destruction 'and recoverability) must at EU level
are recorded.
30. Sustainable industrial and ecological clusters (V, B)
Green calls for a legislative framework for industrial estates that are sustainable over the line. This entails
following aspects: an efficient use of space (including joint use of infrastructure), presence of
greenery and nature, sustainable mobility, sustainable spatial integration, sustainable business processes (eg
sustainable energy, raw materials, water and waste management, sustainable supply chain management) and sustainable employment and
quality of life. There is hereby used as much as possible on closed cycles and ecological clusters. Thereby
residues are optimally used and the waste from one company to the other material.
Upon implantation of the potential existing businesses must first be tapped to offices and premises
be before new business to set up. New industrial estates are developed based
the above criteria and are obliged carbon neutral. Existing business support
to preserve in that direction.
31. A master plan for a biobased economy (V, EU)
• The regions develop an action plan for the development of a sustainable biobased
economy. A sustainable biobased economy provides more social welfare domestically,
but also beyond its borders. A sustainable biobased economy is working with closed
cycles and creates less environmental impact by avoiding the consumption of materials and
energy.
21

•

•

•

We opt for one clear and steering cascade system. Use of biomass
Food has always precedence. The use of biomass to the fertility of the soil
maintain, is the second priority. For non-agricultural applications, we give priority to the
use of biomass as a raw material in the wood, construction and textile industry or the use of biopolymers in green chemistry. Currently Flanders one-sided emphasis on burning
biomass for electricity in mega biomass power stations or she takes too much the card
biofuels. While offering the use of biomass as a raw material many more opportunities
employment and environmental benefits. At European level such a cascade model and
encouraging sustainable use of biomass.
Green wants imported biomass continues to comply with strict sustainability criteria that take into
account all direct and indirect effects on carbon balance. Sustainability criteria

integrate social aspects and human rights. In this way, the practice of land roof should in
developing countries for the cultivation of energy crops will be prevented and should avoid
Hence, demand for biomass in the access to food from the biobased economy
it brings compromised. Also land grab for the production of textile or tobacco at the expense of
food for the local community, we want to go.
The use of biofuels of the first generation (which compete with
food crops) let's go out.

COOPERATIVE ECONOMICS
In the cooperative entrepreneurial model is not profit for a select club of shareholders central yet
sustainable growth of the business and social value. The socio-economic crisis has shown that
genuine cooperatives are better against financial setbacks file. If all goes well, the share of employees in
the profits of the company. If it is less, shocks are absorbed by solidarity between workers and
management. It also enables citizens to participate with for example in housing, energy, banking sector worries.
32. The legal and regulatory framework for the cooperative is improved so that the
cooperative identity as defined by the International Cooperative Alliance (ICA principles)
is better expressed and protected.
This happens both at Belgian and European level. (F, EU)
33. Cooperative enterprise gets more attention in education and better communicated to the
relevant professionals (eg. lawyers, accountants, notaries) and support channels for starters
and entrepreneurs. (V, B)
34. Within a few niche sectors cooperative entrepreneurship is even more put into the paint and
supported.
This is particularly the case for the following sectors: energy, health care, collective living (Community
Land Trust), recycling and reuse industry, childcare and education. It is becoming a framework
worked to ensure that quality standards in terms of performance, participation,
democratic management and sustainability are respected.
35. Through sensitization, training, advice, knowledge sharing and promotion are the possibilities,
knowledge and practice of cooperative entrepreneurship more widespread.
36. Other forms which cooperation is central to be further promoted, eg
peer-to-peer projects and crowdsourcing (jointly develop knowledge).

GOVERNMENT GIVES THE EXAMPLE
37. By 2020, all public comply with sustainability criteria
The public procurement is a powerful tool for social and environmental change to off
enforce and encourage. The government must impose itself ambitious targets and also extract. This can
especially in departments and entities with many large contracts. Qualitative not expect Green
window dressing, but strict ecological and social criteria that products and services must meet.
This should be possible for the whole chain of subcontractors. Also, SMEs and companies in the social economy
must be able to compete for contracts.
38. Sustainable innovative procurement policy
Through a sustainable and innovative green procurement policy will also give additional impetus to sustainable
innovation. So the government can make public tenders for sustainable products or technologies which are still
22

not exist: "If someone produces something with the following qualities, we are willing to to X units of it
buy at price Y. "After such a public announcement would other parties (companies, individuals,
cities, ...) can sign up as a customer stating the promised decrease. Thus one stimulates pioneers
them immediately to create a market for new or improved products.
39. Payment respect in public procurement (F)
The government is still the worst payer. This needs urgent change. The government needs to
Government set a good example for respecting the maximum payment.
Invoices must be paid within 30 days and the duration of the verification procedure by
government should be limited to a maximum of 30 days. The loopholes that the new Belgian
legislation (which was introduced in implementation of the European directive on late payment) for the
government held open, must be closed. Especially for SMEs, it is essential to economically healthy
can continue.

SOME SUBDIVISIONS IN THE SPOTLIGHT
Social economy and local service economy (F, B, F)
We continue to engage in the further development of the local service economy, social economy and social
entrepreneurship. Within this context, getting local services (social restaurants, allotments,
bicycle repair places, parks and green spaces ...) and ecological initiatives in the field of urban agriculture,
energy and such a sustainable framework. These initiatives ensure local, high quality and extremely meaningful
working with a great social value.
40. The customization decree is in close engagement with the sector and the social partners
implemented. (V)
41. sheltered workshops retain a structural place and get the necessary stability
sustainable social to business. (V, B)
42. All companies, persons with a distance to the labor employ. (V, B)
The bespoke decree aims to promote the advancement of persons with a distance to the labor market, but
this only involves companies employing at least five disabled workers. Green believes that companies
which have a limited number of target group employees to work equally entitled to support as
companies that collectively employ disabled workers. This will be the integration of target group employees
promote employment.
43. The local service economy is being further expanded, which will also be used to
cloverleaf financing. This means that resources from different areas of competence
s together. (V)
44. The means of "social economy" that are transferred from the federal government to the regions in
Under the constitutional reform will be fully deployed as part of a further expansion of the
Social Economy (V, B).
Health Care Sector
The healthcare sector is facing enormous challenges. Because of the aging population, the demand for custom
worries only increased and this will not change in the coming years. This creates major challenges
in the recruitment policy (especially in an industry where candidates are scarce), and in developing new
organizational and work models and funding mechanisms. Sustainable innovation is also in this sector
a must.
45. Socially responsible care
In the welfare and health sector, in addition to the non-profit actors' other actors active. In
This evolution is crucial that each provider the key corporate social responsibility
by state. Green therefore wants every facility meets the criteria set by the Strategic Advisory Council
Welfare, Health and Family formulated: there must be high-quality, socially just,
efficient, relevant and accessible care. This should ensure that the most vulnerable people with
remain on board and that continuity is guaranteed. The legal form of the provision is therefore for Green
secondary importance to the strict conditions imposed by the government. The government sees a
transparent and modern way on the quality of care offered. This presupposes transparency
all actors. This also demands a more local, community-based approach with greater freedom and responsibility
for local government, a reappraisal of the role of CPAs and good cooperation with
private partners.
23

46. ​​Companies with a social purpose (VSO) and in particular cooperative societies with
social purpose will be promoted as an interesting organization for starting new
initiatives or for structuring partnerships.
In most of the social profit sector it is, given the current budgetary constraints and / or the
waiting lists, searching for alternative sources of funding. Cooperative forms allow
to attract financial resources rapidly, both through the mobilization of private capital from the members via
gifts or loans. It is also a legal form within which the participation and involvement
of users can be maximized. Members are indeed actively involved in decision making. In the
part of this demand is a major asset, as indeed in all institutions, regardless of legal status,
should be strengthened. Cooperatives, however, are today in the boat when it comes to recognition and
subsidies. It is therefore working on a level playing field between different types of providers.
Importantly, both a limitation or prohibition is recorded on dividend payments, otherwise it risks
the focus on the quality of service being lost. On the other hand, the cooperative must meet a number
conditions which satisfy the accessibility, affordability and quality of service for
Everyone guarantees.
47. However, the government itself must continue to invest sufficient resources in the health, welfare and
socio-cultural sectors. Mobilizing private capital must indeed create additional space and can definitely
not result in a withdrawing government.
Creative industries
With the creative industries we mean here the architecture, visual arts, fine arts,
Cultural Heritage, Design, Gaming, Print Media, Fashion, Music, New Media, Arts and Advertising &
Communication.
48. Green wants to strengthen entrepreneurship in these areas and support and guide as much as possible
towards corporate social responsibility and sustainability in our society.
Among others in the game development industry, there is still a lot of potential that currently remains untapped.
However, we want while avoiding a one-sided marketing would lead to an erosion of the
cultural sector. The specificity of the creative industries requires a supportive policy adapted to the
entrepreneurial skills to stimulate and to improve access to investment. (V)
49. For the promotion of initiatives at the interface of culture and enterprise is CultuurInvest. We want
maintain the fund, but thoroughly evaluate - what effects it has had? - And act. (V)
50. The Creative Industries - supported by Flanders DC - the role of the arts sector needs as
'fundamental research domain also can fully come into its own.
51. It can not be the intention to implement the philosophy of Creative Europe in Flanders. Subsidies
organizations and artists - theater, film, visual arts ... -must always be possible without
'notification' in Europe. They also can not be replaced by an economically oriented
instruments. The free trade agreements with eg the US should not cause impediments. We
put pressure on the European institutions to enforce it. (V, B, E)

24

FINANCIAL SECTOR
VISION
A healthy financial sector is already several centuries the heart of the incredible
progress that has been made by our civilization in many ways. Banks, stock exchanges
and insurers fulfill important functions in our modern society, such as the
secure storage and management of family assets, providing capital to companies
for the development of their activities and to hedge against large risks without
insurance would break a family. A well-functioning financial sector is the oil in the
intricate wheels of our modern economy. Since the importance of this sector for
the smooth functioning of our increasingly complex and rapidly moving economy grew strongly,
a derangement of it, completely blocking our economic machine.

In 2008 came a banking crisis from which to this day still a big piece
loves the world economy in a stranglehold. The Great Recession we then in
ended, has put in a very painful way three things in the paint:

a sound financial sector is a necessary basis for a dynamic, resilient
and innovative economy,

Big Deregulation of the financial sector, which drew underway since 1980, has led
to an unsustainable financial system, in which one takes more and more irresponsible risks
in search of greater profits, because who risk increases profits itself on bag may stabbing, and
the losses can move on to the taxpayer,

there is total impunity within the financial sector; even in cases of flagrant
conflict of interest, abuse of power and deceit shareholders, surveys
blocked and prosecutions suspended. The financial sector derailed end of 2007, a
Small seven years later there is still no clarity about what is happening and who exactly
which was responsible. All those responsible for abuses in the
Belgian banking sector, our national debt by more than 15% of GDP did heighten his
The fully sprung dance.

At the beginning of the crisis, when more and more stories of abuse, and fraud
scandals surfaced, the call for a reform of the banking sector was high. We
are now seven years later, and the report of the promised reforms looks very skinny. Belgium
has decided to put all the advice of renowned experts disregard and
its banks do not want to split. Other necessary reforms have been killed
under heavy pressure from the banking lobby.

It is important to draw lessons from the past and the financial sector
at the service of society. We not only need to focus on new,
innovative solutions, but we also have old security systems, which for decades
have worked well, re-enter. It is not only important that we again
go to a split of commercial banks, savings banks and insurance companies, but also that we
return to a diverse banking landscape, with a wide range of players, where there
alongside traditional banks, again some cooperative banks come and at least one
government bank. Examples from the past and from abroad teach us that a
diverse banking landscape is much more resistant to shocks and thanks to a larger
specialization, also can develop a much more targeted services, to services
real economy.
25

Finally, we would like greens, both in Belgium and at international level within the
European Green Party, limit the impact of future crises. We do it by
better identify risks, mitigate risks at institutions, products and investors,
and to provide better protection for when something will still unravel. It worries us
therefore, that the banks that were rescued in recent years with hope taxpayer money, so many
may resume their old ways of working and that the politicians of traditional
government parties, let them do so completely free game.

Because of the strong banking lobby many of the announced reforms, including the
Basel III rules, could greatly erode, reverse the gains of the past would gradually
back in the financial sector. At the same time remains the real economy, citizens and businesses,
groaning under a heavy, lingering crisis. Moreover, the taxpayer, on the
moment that aging only really gets going, saddled with a heavy financial
tomcat, which we and our children and grandchildren for decades will have long
pay off. This is indefensible. This can not continue. The financial sector needs
be fundamentally reformed.

PROPOSALS
1.

If we want to get out of the current, protracted crisis, and future crises of a similar magnitude to
unavoidable, it is important that we identify what exactly happened. Therefore, Green wants that there is a
full parliamentary inquiry comes around Dexia and all related files. (F) The
impact of Dexia's story is a bitter legacy for many decades where we will sit with. It is
indefensible that the traditional parties so far refused any initiative that could finally cleared
bring about what and where went wrong.
In a case of this magnitude, it is incomprehensible that no one is his or her responsibility
asked. We want an objective examination of the facts, not a witch hunt. Our citizens have the
right to know why they will bear for many decades for the Dexia bill, and one that is
which was responsible.
2. We also want the 60 recommendations of the previous, highly constrained, Dexia commission
in any case be fully implemented. (F)
A brief overview of some of these proposals:
•
investment products designed for the general public may be traded only after approval
purpose by the Belgian regulator FSMA
•
banks and insurers that too little money have own capital in proportion to their outstanding
obligations should not pay dividends
•
systemic banks should include a member of the FSMA and the National Bank in its board
•
savings banks also need to develop a financial emergency plan and have it approved by the FSMA
•
At EU level, Belgium should work towards a centralized supervision of large banks, a
guarantee fund financed by the banking sector with lifesaving in the event of another crisis and
independent European rating agencies.

THE FINANCIAL SECTOR WEATHER AT THE SERVICE PROVISION OF OUR SOCIETY
3. An important consequence of the absolute division of savings banks, investment banks and insurance (F), that is
savings banks can no longer be used as a piggy bank for the high-risk investments of the
investment banks. This will make a lot of money in the savings banks again become available for lending to the
real economy, which many companies are increasingly craving since the start of the crisis to a sound
lending.
4. Because lending to the real economy is an indispensable role of the banking sector, it is important
that the government its bank policy also begins shoeing along the lines of small specialist
banks. In recent decades, the policy too often custom-developed system of universal banks.
Thus, the smaller, specialized banks have become increasingly in trouble, which gave an incentive
an unhealthy scale through a wave of bank mergers, which the problem of systemic banks only
increased.
5. Previously Belgium had a diverse landscape to specialized banks. Within this landscape there were
different, healthy cooperative banks. Throughout the years, these banks are almost all gone up in mergers
26

6.

7.

8.

9.

27

with traditional banks, causing their individuality disappeared as a cooperative bank. As a result, there is now a large
gap arose our banking landscape. Therefore, the government should develop a policy that
cooperative banking again encourages appropriately (E, F, V, B) so that we can return in time
the healthy diversity of yesteryear, with classic, cooperative and public banks, each with their own
bonus points.
The government bench as a lever for recovery (F)
We have been saying for many years that our economy needs a government bank savings in safety
manages, and with that collected savings to the local economy with cheap credit helps. The
nationalization of Belfius offers a unique opportunity to realize this project.
Belfius although not as a traditional state-owned bank has been created, it is that it has become the 100% government shareholding. That gives us the unique opportunity for a major bank in order to create the
government bank we have many years of struggle. Indeed, it is much more efficient to Belfius, with its
existing clientele and its great expertise in the financing of major projects, to gymnastics to a sustainable
and ethical government bank, then sell Belfius again and stamping a new state bank from the ground.
If government Belfius Bank should not just remain a key player in financing
infrastructure, they must also support SMEs in these credit crunch wrongly difficult
got to touch investment funds. Through its ethical, sustainable investments and its
Belfius future oriented credit policy must play a key role in an accelerated transition to a
sustainable economy.
The banking model of this state bank must be extremely simple and transparent: profit is not the
main mission, or efficiency, safe management of savings and a smooth lending to the
Belgian economy. (F)
As an institution with a social purpose this bank can keep the other banks 'fair' by itself to act
as honest player with interesting products. The government bank can help the saver by transparent,
offering ethical savings products. This bank also provides low-cost loans to SMEs and individuals
investment in innovation and sustainability. The government puts banking in all its products and initiatives
strong emphasis on criteria such as sustainability, ethics, social and ecological value. So they can in collaboration
and consultation with the regional authorities also play an important role in supporting:
• material and energy efficiency
• cluster development
• closing material cycles
• development of sustainable industrial
• microfinance
• developing future-oriented, efficient and sustainable infrastructures
The government bank may also play a supporting role in the investment policies of the regions. (F, V,
B)
It should never be the intention that regional investment funds, as in the past often did not
longer investing in the real economy, but will invest in financial products in search of yield. As
investment companies or funds in the hands of national, regional or local government more resources
than they can use at the time they invest not in risky financial products, but
they put these extra resources from the government bench, so that can support other initiatives.
The government bank shall not stop fall for that (private and public) investments in financial
crisis by activating dormant savings through a "Green New Deal" fund. (F)
In order to increase the amount of cash for investments we mobilize a portion of the approximately
240 billion in dormant savings of Belgian households via a 'Green New Deal'beleggingsfonds. This public investment fund is managed by a government bank. She offers a wide
range of secure sustainable and ethical investment in the future of their own country. An example of this
its investments in energy saving projects in government, schools, welfare facilities and businesses.
These investments yield higher returns than savings accounts can offer.
This' Green New Deal fund could potentially be a range of investment products and sustainable projects for retreading
one to cover the widest possible range of investment profiles, -wensen and needs. Thus, for
Example:
• money put into a third-party investor product that third-party payer for energy projects
financing and the loan gradually repays through the proceeds of the realized
energy savings;
• buy bonds for low-interest or interest-free loans (patronage) to school construction projects;

•

will invest more risky by subscribing to a product that invests in local sustainable spinoffs from universities and colleges:
• increase the financial capacity of existing initiatives such as the federal fund for reduction
of the global cost of energy (Energy Cost Reduction Fund);
• ...
10. We explicitly opt for a GND Fund in the management of public banks, which several products
offering tailored to the investor and not for a nation that offers one specific loan product in the
management of private banks. (F)
A first advantage of an SNE fund is that the resources are centralized at a bank, which
effectiveness of the fund increases in respect of a loan that is fragmented nation with a broad group
banks. In addition, the SNE-fund has also the advantage that happen actual profits flow back to the
taxpayers, while the profits of the loan people arrive at the shareholders of the private banks.
A final important advantage is that the GND Fund also can strengthen the delicate balance of Belfius, what
chance of a new rescue with taxpayer money reduces considerably.
The government can also offer attractive returns through this fund, by paying back its tax receipts in the GNDfonds to the investor in the form of increased efficiency. Belfius is globally one
the most experienced player in supporting infrastructure projects. In terms of expertise is so unique
placed to manage the 'Green New Deal Fund.
The establishment of the 'Green New Deal fund is not only good for the saver, which finally have some
gets returns but also to the taxpayer because of private funding invested heavily in
modern infrastructure, thereby lowering our energy dependence from abroad, and our economy
modernises. In addition, the federal government can also increase its expected tax revenue from the GND Fund
use it to provide higher returns for projects with high social, environmental and / or
social value.

RISKS BETTER IDENTIFY
11. Creating public and independent rating agencies (E, F)
The poor functioning of rating agencies, which give a public opinion ('rating') through quotations on how
is a risky investment, has played a decisive role in the onset of the financial and banking
crisis. By consistently give favorable ratings to securities issued by their customers,
they have hidden some of the risks to the buyers of these securities. The fact that these
agencies are paid by the issuers of the securities they have to judge leads to
obvious conflicts of interest. The creation of a public rating agency for financial
products that the financial sector is independent, is therefore necessary.
Europe in October 2011 decided to set up a European rating agency with the cooperation
of the financial sector. Unfortunately, this early 2013 removed again, oddly enough "because there is not
enough private investors were found. " However it is for the proper functioning of the financial
Markets important to come independent rating agencies, publicly funded
or by a contribution imposed on the issuance and purchase of listed securities. If such an agency
receives public funding, this agency should not give odds on the government of which they
funds received and the companies in which the government is a shareholder.

Nothing prevents them Belgium to take the initiative, alone or together with other countries. It is in fact
not required to fund this agency with public money, it may be because also funded by
the entire financial sector (via an automatic minimum contribution proportionate to the profits), so
both issuers and purchasers of securities. This agency should also be responsible to some extent in
case of the failure of its ratings. This can be done by assigning a right to partial reimbursement to
users of ratings, if it appears that the ratings were not truthful.
12. All activities included in the balance sheet (E)
In the future, the accounting standards should build significant off-balance sheet commitments
by preventing financial institutions.

RISK REDUCTION IN FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
13. Splitting of the savings bank, investment banking and insurance operations (E, F)
Green advocates for many years to enact rules that force banks to their own abilities
strengthen and implement a strict separation between savings banks, investment banks and insurers. We were
supported by the special bank committee of the Chamber which, under the leadership of four independent
28

experts came to the same conclusion. The premise of the Greens, and with our many experts
worldwide, the question was: Can we regulate banks so that we can have a repeat of the financial crisis
avoid? Quickly became a consensus among independent experts that splitting the
Banking activities for this is essential.
The main reason for savings banks, investment banks and insurers to separate is because they
business models that are incompatible in principle. If you let go a savings bank, for example in
an investment bank, it is hard-earned, then safely invested and government-guaranteed savings from the
savings are used for the typical risky investments by commercial banks in search of a higher
returns for shareholders. Run that risk investments badly, then it is safe before
savings of citizens in smoke. The simplest way to prevent this, it is prevent savings
can be used for speculation.
But actually that is not going far enough. As long as we continue to invest in risky activities, she runs a
increased risk of bankruptcy, even if they do not use savings to do so. Also in the case of a
bankruptcy the supposedly safe savings will disappear altogether unless the government disappeared
coughing up money to reimburse depositors. Because universal banks are not only very large, but also heavy
investing in each other's products, it is usually not enough that the government pays the savings, they must
immediately save the entire bank or else one failure can cause many other bankruptcies. So
a domino bankruptcies is also what caused the Great Depression of the 19 301 years.
This phenomenon is a typical case of 'moral hazard': profits are distributed to shareholders,
losses are coughed up by the society. A universal bank knows this and is from that science
take much greater risks than a split bench. Who wants to avoid such a scenario again
occurs must ensure that the balance sheets are smaller (no systemic banks more), that the lever
becomes smaller, equity is higher, and that the risk activities of a bank and the real economy
purchasing power of the citizens can no longer stifle.
Therefore, Economics Nobel Laureate Joseph Stiglitz formally proposes: split big banks. "Too big to fail" is
him "too big to exist". The risks involved with such major big banks for society are
simply too large. Nouriel Roubini, one of the few economists who predicted the banking crisis, demands
for years that the politics of the Glass-Steagall Act of 1933 restored back to its former glory. The Glass-Steagall Act provided for a
pure separation of savings banks and investment banks. She has worked 70 years without problems. In home
country are also quite a few academics in favor of a pure split; among them also the four experts who
federal parliament have assisted in the analysis of the banking crisis. Apart from them as well as Professor Paul
Montagu's telling that the splitting of banking activities is essential.
Some advocate not to split the banks themselves, but just the flow of funds between different
keep operations separate. This so-called "Ring Fencing 'departs from the model of a universal
bank, which manages both savings, as does to business banking. However, the bank may not savings
use for its activities in the investment banking department. There is a split of cash flows within
one and the same bank. The problem is that if the investment banking division and enters heavy weather,
government still has an obligation to intervene to prevent the department with savings not dragged
becomes. This means that the banker in such a model that the government is ultimately still a guarantee
against bankruptcy. When a financial meltdown, it is again the taxpayer who must pay
for the damage. Higher outlined moral hazard problem remains in this solution so play plenty. Hence
that we, like many experts, continue to advocate for a real bench junction. We did indeed there
though a bill around: http://www.lachambre.be/FLWB/PDF/53/1835/53K1835001.pdf
14. Because we advocate a model of stable savings banks as a safe haven for savings and reliable
lender for individuals, companies and organizations, we will also work to ensure that savings banks
no longer be listed (F). Even though we are in favor of a diverse shareholder at large
savings banks, we believe that the exposure of equity to volatile stock markets is not compatible
with the stable factor that need to be savings banks in our economy.
15. Implement a "Volcker Rule" for banks (E, F)
Banks may not invest the money of their depositors for their own account.
16. Maintaining require safe assets (E, F)
The holding of financial assets should be limited to 15% of the balance sheet consist of foot and ankle
risk-free assets (according to the assessment of the public rating agency). Moreover,
deposit banks focus only on the granting of loans that constitute their core business. Again,
a deposit bank's main objective is to provide loans to customers, not investing in
risk securities. We can also further enhance the creditworthiness of savings banks through systems
as "dynamic own resources': during periods of economic boom to be their own

29

resources from banks increased gradually (to at least 15%, ideally even 20% of liabilities). Which
reserves, they can then appeal in difficult times.
17. Raising the capital requirements of banks (E, F)
Bill: http://www.lachambre.be/FLWB/PDF/53/1835/53K1835001.pdf Basel II needs further
be expanded to include liquidity risk, and the need stricter requirements on risk management
be formulated. Moreover, there should be a lower limit for holding equity
at least 10% of total assets for deposit banks. This capital should consist own
capital and reserves are gradually being built through deductions from profits (before
payment of dividends). The requirements on equity would be further increased up to 10%
in function of the credit risks, market risks, operational risks and liquidity risks of the
deposit banks.
18. Limiting the use of leverage (E, F)
Financial institutions that occupy important positions, should be able to demonstrate that they have sufficient
liquid reserves available (eg at least 50%) for the operation of speculative transactions.
At present it is possible to speculate in certain cases, with a stake of 1%, which corresponds to a
leverage of 100. This strong speculative practices are reserved to certain players and
fortunately not accessible to individuals. We propose to prohibit the practice for all parties.
19. Taxing net gains on briefly held shares (F)
Green advocates a tax on gains from speculative shares held short. This
tax applies to both individuals and companies, and will go out as a share of longer
is arrested. The purpose of this measure is to bring more stability in the
shareholding of listed companies, and to discourage excessive speculation without
Investors in good faith to punish that. Belgium is now one of the few developed
economies that are not taxed such gains.
20. Implement a Financial Transaction Tax (FTT) and Tobin Tax (E, F)
The financial transaction tax in the European countries they have been approved, including Belgium,
implemented without delay. The proceeds will be spent on poverty reduction and policies against
global warming. We also continue at European level to work towards a Tobin tax on monetary transactions. The
introduction of these taxes is important because they have a stabilizing effect on financial markets,
because they rise to great volatility and a decline in low volatility in the markets. Furthermore, the introduction will
This FTT also put an end to the infamous "High Frequency Trading" (hyper speed through stock exchange transactions
algorithmically driven computers) which according to recent studies, nearly 80% of the market
represents
21. Capital expenditure and investments by pension funds and stabilize sustainability (E, F)
Currently, the holdings of pension funds in companies on average seven months
maintained, which is far too short to be anything undertake. The bill that we have laid
set this term average return over five years to rely on a tax leverage: the current fiscal
benefit would no longer be granted where the average duration is not achieved.

RISK REDUCTION IN FINANCIAL PRODUCTS
22. Ban on "naked" and "leveraged short selling" (E, F)
One of the examples of the use of a lever debt is the "short selling". This practice has led
led sometimes more shares of some listed companies were then sold
total number of shares issued by the company (an absurd situation which led to the
collapse of certain rates and sometimes even a temporary ban on "short selling" of certain
financial effects). Ordinary "short selling" is a form of arbitration, which may be perfectly legitimate in a
strategy to hedge risks, but techniques such as "leveraged" and "naked short selling" work hard
distort the market and should simply be banned. These types of short selling are actually not
more than bets on what would happen to a stock price, often with the explicit intention
to manipulate a stock price.
23. Unguaranteed prohibit securitization (E, F)
This form of securitization is at the basis of the current crisis. This mechanism allows the banks to
to sell their credits to others in the form of securities (so they can borrow more
the same equity, which is tantamount to circumvention of the rules of good management). The banks
Credit granted sliding the risk to third parties. The fact is that the banks know the customer,
and the only ones to correct the risk of default estimate. Banks do not pay more attention to the
quality of borrowers because they can pass on the risk to the purchasers of the securities.
30

Uncollateralized securitization should be prohibited. The technique of "covered bonds" is a solid
alternative to this form of securitization, because the bank can refinance without the risk to third parties
by sliding.
24. Prohibition of "side bets" on the stock market, and sales of virtual products and too risky
leverage products (E, F)
Concretely determine the profile of the financial players which financial products and techniques he would
may possess or use (according to the level of risk). Deposit banks would thus only financial assets
can persist that involve the lowest possible risk. Products with a higher (but acceptable)
riskiness only be allowed to investment banks. Some financial products and techniques (such as
naked short selling, or buying a CDS insurance on a risk that you do not run) would
simply be prohibited because they are too unstable, lacking transparency, or just a purely speculative
have character and therefore have no real economic purpose.

RISK REDUCTION IN THE CONDUCT OF MANAGERS AND DEALERS
25. Golden parachutes discourage tax (E, F)
Green wants the system of excessive termination payments, so-called 'golden parachutes' show
disappear. Therefore, we suggest that for people who have an annual income of more than 250,000
euro (net of social security contributions), a load of 100% is imposed on the portion of the
severance payments in excess of the greater of 250,000 euro than one month salary per year
seniority in the company. In anticipation of this legislation, the Belgian government should follow the example
pass to prevent the practice of "golden parachute" in public companies of which he
shareholder.
26. Remuneration forbidding to give a strong incentive to short-term thinking and taking risks
business leaders. (E, F)
Wages which is directly linked to the share price leads managers prefer the
short term, to the detriment of the long-term interests of the company, which are crucial to
employees and non-speculative shareholders. If one or the wages of the whole business
partly wants to link to the market value and performance of the company, it has to be done to link
the performance of the company's long-term (5 to 10 years) rather than the current market value.
27. Directors with financial institutions must provide proof of competency (F)
Article 18 of the Law on the legal status and supervision of credit institutions on March 18, 1993 states:
"The people who participate in the administration or management of a credit institution (...) have the front
performance of their duties have necessary expertise and appropriate experience. "Although the idea behind
is good, it will not be applied in reality. The wording is far too weak and does not allow for
control nor to sanction. During the banking crisis were nevertheless constantly directors in the news
claimed they actually had no expertise in banking matters.
Or the expertise and experience of a potential board member is sufficient, should be assessed
by an independent body. We see this as an additional role for the CBFA. For the most important
Financial Institutions, the CBFA must then prior to the appointment of new directors hair
to give approval. She screens the background and the proven expertise of the nominee directors.
In addition, the possibility should exist for drivers who demonstrable errors made or were negligent,
to forbid ever to sit in a different or the same board of directors of a credit institution.
28. When managers and employees at financial institutions can gain bonuses, they also have to
malus can get. (E, F)
If someone can get bonuses for a win, but not a malus in case of loss, that person gets a
strong incentive to take excessive risks in search of profiteering. To dispel that incentive,
Persons who join a bonus system also made symmetrical liable for poor
performance. The current bonus system should therefore be replaced by a bonus-malus system.
29. Personal liability in cases of willful unlawful transactions. (E, F)
In the case of intentional market manipulation (if it appears that the management information withheld,
distorted or released too late) or breaches of the law, there should be significant penalties being imposed
to be responsible, not only to the company but also to the managers, their
private assets if they bear the responsibility. In the case of insufficient or poor governance that up
severe losses or bankruptcy leads, managers must pay a penalty to the company. The
malus should be as high as the bonuses awarded to good performance.

31

30. Introduce a mini-Volcker-Rule for asset managers, investment agents, staff
financial institutions and their independent distribution channels (E, F)
The fact that the staff of financial institutions sometimes receive compensation as a percentage of earned
profit on an investment, but no punishment given losses suffered on that same investment, ensures
for such staff have an unhealthy incentive to take excessive risks. Therefore, should
remuneration based on profits only happen if also recognized losses proportionally in
be charged. To avoid social dramas, both the bonus and the penalty due
of net income on such investments are limited to 20% of annual salary.

BETTER PROTECTION WHEN THE FAULT STILL RUNNING
31. Strengthening and expansion of the Deposit Guarantee Fund (E, F)
The deposit protection fund should be refinanced by the banks. On serve the short term
reserve fund to cover at least 5% of the deposits held by the
deposit banks. Later that best percentage still be increased. Moreover, the amount should be, that by
fund is covered, are unlimited and hence cover the full savings.
In addition, the protection of the guarantee fund is required to be extended to savings products
long-term capital and yield guarantee (type class 21). This extension of the guarantee means that
insurance (or deposit banks) that offer these products will also be required
to feed this fund in the amount of their market share and the profit realized on these
savings products. The accession of these insurance companies is already possible on a voluntary basis,
However, this is inadequate.
32. introduce CFC-lines (E, F)
CFC rules, English acronym for "Controlled Foreign Capital", consist of financial flows
tax originating from companies located in tax havens or in unregulated
financial sites. The CFC rules can be defined as the anti-abuse legislation that
allows taxation on the income received by a foreign company before
distribution to the country of residence of the shareholders. CFC rules provide concrete considered the
ability to tax income derived from tax havens and unregulated
financial sites (whether they are paid or awarded). A Belgian bank with an (outside
balance) investment instrument would have in a tax haven, it would be taxed in Belgium on profits
incurred in that tax haven. Taxation should be sufficient to establish
to completely discourage such offshore companies.
33. Savers
(individuals
and
companies)
better
protect
(E,
F)
Banks that offer investment products issued by third parties with guaranteed capital
themselves must guarantee that capital is when the third of his obligations. With others
words, customers who have bought investment products with guaranteed capital reimbursed by
the bank that sold them the products if the original deposit can not pay capital.
34. Municipalities can no reference shareholder in banks or in the banking authorities (see above)
nor in a private bank. (V, B)
They focus because too much on local interests, and can not directly interpellated moreover
by the parliament. Mayors and other local officials have no place in Boards
of financial institutions. They do so usually lack the know-how and have insufficient awareness
cover.

32

AGRICULTURE, FISHERIES AND FOOD
VISION
Of high quality, healthy and make basic food accessible to everyone a Green
political priority. We therefore opt for foods that are less industrial, more climate-friendly
and is healthier for animal and human. Tasty, healthy and fair food taste even better.
We strengthen the bond between town and country, between food consumer and producer
with farmer cooperatives around urban areas and urban agriculture. The increased
Public concern regarding the origin, production and food authenticity
is a tremendous opportunity for the short-chain agriculture. We promote regional products
with a quality and promotion campaigns for seasonal fruit and vegetables. In
the short chain increases the food safety sensitive, since the quality and the
food traceability can be better monitored. This guarantees consumers
fresh products, while we save so food mileage, especially for transport
of food over long distances creates a lot of CO 2 emissions.
Today, European agriculture and the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) that
nearly 100% responsible for the agricultural resources are heavily focused on manufacturing. There
much is produced mostly by large players. Currently 20% of the received
European industrial farms, 80% of the subsidies. Smaller growers are
caught in an agro-industrial system in which they produce at very low margins and
are dependent on highly concentrated, industrial customers. Consequently, our
Flemish agriculture is characterized by the extensive industrialization and intensification of
a rather limited space for our open space is no longer scarce and many
space questions arise. Flemish agriculture is also focused on the intensive
livestock and meat exports. Besides the issues of animal welfare causes our
Flemish agriculture pressures and is not sustainable on the future. The non landless livestock leads to ground and surface water pollution from intensive
fertilizer use. Industrialized farming also causes presence
pesticides in our water and to high concentrations of nitrate and phosphate in the soil.
At the same time losing our soil organic matter so that more CO 2 is released. Today
therefore supports a significant proportion of agricultural subsidies in essence
agricultural practices with negative environmental impact. Internationally us
agricultural export subsidies with a negative impact on developing countries. Fair
trade on the other hand should be supported.

We demand quality over quantity and this is another agriculture
necessary. Green agricultural opts for an agriculture that strengthens the ecosystem
and preferably for regional produced food. Sustainable agriculture is based on the
carrying capacity of ecosystems and is an enrichment for nature.

If the big industry players receive fewer subsidies, we invest those freed
resources in smaller-scale, more diverse, less intensive and more environmentally friendly
agriculture. We therefore support farmers who choose climate-friendly businesses and
For ecological and animal friendly farming. All organic farmers show that agriculture
without pesticides and fertilizers can. They also contribute significantly to the
biodiversity. Dumping on other markets can not, subsidies for export so either.
Imports of cheap or low quality products may be inhibited. Green choose
a Flanders without genetically modified organisms (GMOs). Brussels
Wallonia already joined the GMO-free regions in and outside Europe.

33

Lots of eating meat is not healthy and not good for the environment. If we produce less meat,
we also emit less CO 2. Intensive farming should be phased out. Our
we reduce livestock to facilitate a sustainable manner through the transition from a non land-related livestock to soil husbandry offered. It is
unacceptable that each year we waste half our food. The production, processing
and the distribution of this food is wasted water and energy, soil and water
contaminated,
the
use
from
fertilizers
and
Pesticides
increased
and
for
provided lorry kilometers. By tackling the food waste, so we book
serious environmental gain.

PROPOSALS
FOR MORE SOCIAL AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD POLICIES
1.

2.

3.
4.
5.

Agricultural and food policy in Europe should permanently be financially supported. But will the means
we refocus so that resources reach up active farming and food production.
Rural Subsidies for golf courses can not. The subsidy sends active
sustainable agriculture in. Resources for landless livestock extinguish. (E)
Industrial farms supper currently too many resources, 80% of subsidies go to 20%
of farms and food multinationals. The ceiling was reduced in 2013 to € 300 000 per
business. However, we believe that a more ambitious reduction (up to € 100 000 per company) effective the
consolidation and industrialization in European agriculture would counteract. The reduction of the
subsidy per farm would generate € 7 billion from the CAP budget. This amount can be used in a
further greening of European agriculture and supporting the short chain. (E)
The EU immediately abolish all export subsidies. The food supply in developing countries is therefore
under pressure. (E)
There will be a review of the CAP on developing countries, where necessary, adjust policy. (E)
At the Flemish level, a reorientation of agricultural support means that support for such exports
of pork, the suckler cow premium for rearing calves for meat production, investment
new mega stalls and processing of animal waste goes out because the preservative
conventional agriculture stand in the way. Replace support mechanisms for sustainable and
land-based agriculture, for example, a shift premium and price guarantees for farmers
switch to organic farming. (V)

WE MAKE FOR SMALL-SCALE AGRICULTURE WEATHER VIABLE, LOCAL
ANCHORED PRODUCERS
6. Farmers earn fair prices for their sustainable products. Today the market in the European
agriculture in the hands of a very limited number (and therefore highly consolidated) and distribution
retailers. The European Commission acts against abuse of power by food multinationals,
supermarket chains and wholesalers. At the same time there will be more scope for agreement between
producers, supermarkets and organized consumers. Specifically, the CAP provides incentives
(subsidies) for farmers' cooperatives and local processing, distribution and commercialization of the
agricultural production through farmers' markets and farm sales. (E)
7. Pioneers of short chains, food cooperatives and organic markets where local farmers to their products
a fair price to the husband can bring merit support. By reducing the distance producer-consumer
Also the climate impact of our food system. (V, B)
8. Locally anchored (bio) agriculture, we give a strong boost. Relatively new initiatives
Community Supported Agriculture (CSA), urban agriculture and self-picking fields deserve all the opportunities and
should also be eligible for support through the CAP. (V, B)
9. More agricultural production in and around the city. We put the population to participate in allotments and there
new start up through advocacy and funding. Also wastelands we propose collective
gardening disposal. City services provide advice and materials to groups that want an allotment
startup. We will take initiatives to bring together investors biological near the town
agricultural want to start and to sell on the local market. (V, B)

34

10. There will be research on external costs of the food chain. The results are used in a
campaign to raise awareness with consumers so they can get back in touch with the real costs of their
food. (V)
11. plant products from organic farming in the VAT rate is reduced to zero (well
for the health and the environment). Reduced VAT rates make healthy food attractive and provide the
farmers a fair income. (E, F)
12. Clear labeling informs consumers about the impact of production, storage, packaging and transport us
environment and climate, for example, water footprint and CO2. This puts regional and seasonal products more
to the attention of the consumer. Food manufacturers have as an additional incentive to put on such a
work climate and environmentally friendly way possible. (F)
13. A specific label government labeled 'short chain farming' brings the importance of local / regional and
seasonal food even more attention. Local and seasonal products are
based on clear social, environmental and health criteria certified. (F, F)
14. Support for small-scale agriculture in addition can also provide a solution to the urgent problem
aging of the European farming community. Four fifths of European farmers are over 55
year and will shortly disappear from the agricultural sector. The CAP must provide resources to follow up on, and
enhance attractiveness for young farmers in the agricultural sector. We demand in this regard a better
social status for farmers. (E, V)

ACCESS TO LAND
The limited availability of land is a bottleneck for the active (bio) farming and in particular for Small countries horticulturists. The price of agricultural land is not proportionate to the market prices on food. Verpaarding and
vertuining of the Flemish countryside ensure that further increase the scarcity and prices for farmland.





possible. (V)

(V)
By
(F)





(V)
(V)






(E)




(E)


A
35





(E)


We

(V)







(V)





(V)



A
(V)

(V)


(V)
For
(V)
Do we want

the shift to making agriculture sustainable, there must be change and the curriculum must be adapted
be. (V)
34. Together with the agricultural sector we will take initiatives to expand the training offering organic farming.
(V)
35. 'Competent' is a database of VDAB with a frame of tasks and competencies that are necessary
to exercise a profession. Biolandbouwer we incorporate into this database in order to lay the foundation for a
development of essential training modules to train farmers to biolandbouwer. (V)

BIOTECHNOLOGY IS NOT THE PROPER RESPONSE TO THE AGRICULTURAL AND
FOOD CRISIS
Biotechnology - particularly the development of genetically modified crops (GMOs) - is not good
solution to the ecological and socio-economic crisis in which the current European (and world) agriculture itself
located. GMOs strengthen the power of agrochemical companies in the agricultural and agro-biodiversity and thereby threaten the sovereignty of farmers, while the environmental and long-term health effects inadequate
be clear. By contrast, agricultural biodiversity (= all the components that are relevant to agriculture and food production)
indispensable for a resilient agriculture that can adapt to a changing climate. It contributes to a
diverse and varied landscape and the preservation of nature.

36

36. In the Flemish Parliament Green presented a draft decree to Flanders - like Wallonia and Brussels - to
into line with GMO-free regions in and outside Europe. (V)
37. Green also is keen to get the grants now be paid to the GMO research to use for
more research into the positive effects on the employability of agro-ecology and organic farming
agroforestry. (E, V)
38. In the EU, we strive for a GMO-free agriculture and we support non-GM production chains. (E)
39. The labeling requirement for already approved gene foods are extended to products from animals
fed with gene-feed. (E)
40. Growers of gene crops and suppliers are fully responsible for (environmental) damage,
For example, the "contagion" of organic farmers. (E)
41. At the end of 2013 in the EU is a temporary ban on certain pesticides (neonicotinoids) came into force,
of which have been shown to play an important role in the strong decrease of European bee populations.
However, we argue for a generally more cautious attitude to pesticide use in agriculture and for
stricter criteria where the harm to children should be taken as a guide. (E, F, V)
42. Private individuals may only access through a qualified vendor to pesticides in the store. We
examine the setting of a fee on pesticides. (F, F)
43. We support initiatives for farmer selections in the conservation of genetic diversity
support and promote vegetable. (V)

PERSPECTIVE FOR THE FLANDERS LIVESTOCK
In Flanders, eight times more meat produced today than Fleming consume. The result is a
manure which can not handle the agricultural soil. We strive for a more sustainable and socially responsible
livestock that is returned anchored locally. Concretely this means that we move away from the export-oriented and strive
to higher ground bondage of Flemish livestock herds with both a business as well as in the region
decreases as a whole. A smaller livestock poses fewer environmental and social externalities than
large-scale farming. Smaller-scale farmers have more opportunities (more farmers can make a fair income
merit) while offering more space per animal. Sustainable production calls for sustainable consumption; therefore puts the
policy also sustainability, to production and consumption side.
44. A sustainable Flemish livestock is based on local food production and secondary streams of human
power supply. Research is being conducted to determine how many animal production is feasible on the basis of which
secondary flows and the existing grasslands. (V)
45. The Flemish Government is developing a transition plan for climate-damaging livestock. This plan contains a
concrete steps, timing and resources to transition to a climate-friendly and animal husbandry
to Realise. (V)
46. ​​Fodder for livestock to be produced by us. The cultivation of various local
protein crops, we encourage financially (not only in animal feed and as a replacement of animal
protein for humans). (V)
47. Farmers from industrial farming to make the transition to make land-related livestock
additional support. Export aid will be abolished. (V)
48. There will be a social and ecological tax on imports (soy) protein. (E)
49. Not all farmers can switch to a mixed business form with its own food supply.
Therefore we facilitate sustainable partnerships between livestock and arable farmers.
Collaboration with the food industry and catering to earn close local cycles as well as support. (V)
50. We are committed to sustainable farming in the development and support of the short chain. In the short-
chain link producer-consumer direct and get the farmer to be higher quality product fairer
price. (V)
51. We raise funds for awareness and consumer education regarding gezondheidsen environmental impact of its food consumption. This will increase support for meat moderation. (V)
52. Campaigns to promote meat financed by public funds can not. We reduce the resources
to support campaigns that explain the importance of a more plant-based diet and
meat alternatives, promote fruit and vegetables. (V)

ANIMAL IN THE ENVIRONMENT AND NOT IN AGRICULTURE

37

53. There is a need for an independent policy on animal rights. It is therefore not a good thing as animal welfare
is the responsibility of the minister of agriculture. Then get economic interests may be the
prevailed and a single instance is both judge and party. Animal rights belong to us at home under
environment. We advocate a strict control of compliance with existing and future rules
animal welfare in livestock. (V)
54. For proposals on animal welfare in agriculture Chapter Nature and Biodiversity.

FOR HEALTHY AND SUSTAINABLE FOOD
SAFE FOOD
55. Since 2013 the EU's trade interests for the decontamination of beef and kalverkarkassen using
of lactic acid allowed. Green opposes the erosion of European standards
food security in the context of a free trade agreement with the United States. These standards ensure
for the protection of European consumers from imports of chlorinated chicken, hormone-treated
steaks, and so on. (E)
56. Green wants a more active role of the government in the area of ​​food safety. Food safety is first
foremost a matter of public health. That's why we put the Federal Agency for the
Food Safety (AFSCA) back under the tutelage of the Minister of Health and no longer under the
guardianship of the Minister of Agriculture. (F)
57. The Federal Food Agency (AFSCA) warns in a timely and transparent
allows the population to issues around food safety. The savings from the previous federal government
the budget of the AFSCA we turn back. (F)
58. Green wants to ban the use of preventive antibiotics in livestock. We implement to
Dutch model a plan to reduce antibiotics in livestock. It is important to set up
a central database in which the use of antibiotics by sector and by company is closely monitored
so that the greatest abuses be mapped. Intensive and preventive use of antibiotics leads to
resistant bacterial strains not only the livestock and aquaculture stock can decimate but
mutants which are difficult to treat (and possibly fatal) bacterial diseases in humans
cause because these antibiotics eventually end up on our plates. (F)
59. Revaluation of local and robust cattle breeds can make the use of antibiotics in livestock farming valleys. (V)
60. The use of pesticides we discourage. Private individuals may only through a qualified vendor access
get to pesticides in the store. We examine the establishment of a tax on pesticides. (F, F)

FOR A HEALTHY FOOD PATTERN
61. We encourage new and innovative processing industries of high-protein meat substitutes. (V)
62. We are launching a program to promote increased vegetable consumption. A high consumption of
meat and other animal products is not only harmful to health but also harmful to the
climate. There is need for awareness-raising campaigns about nutrition, environment and health. To initiatives
stimulating vegetarian diet (such as Thursday Veggidag) is granted support. The government issues
obvious example. (V)
63. We endeavor to ensure that the government needs to coordinate its purchasing this and all public canteens
Restaurants government directly or indirectly from the government increasingly rely on vegetarian alternatives
offer. (F, V, B)
64. Healthy food is cheaper. Unhealthy diet increases the risk of cardiovascular disease,
leading cause of death in Flanders. Healthy products are however not cheap, and not
obviously for people with lower incomes. Healthy and sustainable diet can contrast
become cheaper by applying a reduced VAT rate. (E, F)
65. In other countries, like the United States (New York), France, Finland and Hungary, taxes on
Unhealthy foods, such as sugary soft drinks, tested and implemented in the fight against
obesity in children. We investigate whether tax incentives we can also use in our country healthy
promoting dietary patterns. (F)
66. Europe is a further labeling of food. Food labels provide clear information about the
origin, production, environmental and health aspects of food products. (E)

FOR LESS FOOD WASTE

38

67. The EU proposes a plan of action against food wastage, which among other things provides for shortening
food chains, clearer information for consumers on shelf life and use data and
collaboration between supermarkets and food banks. (E)
68. By connecting local cycles can waste products of human food still in sustainable farming
be utilized. (V)
69. We support the initiative of Ovam Fevia and to work towards an achievable and realistic program
the surplus and waste to a halt in Flanders so that we can stop
surplus food to ferment in fermentation plants. (V)
70. We also request a separate food safety regime with realistic, but custom requirements
local craft (eg. non-pasteurized cheeses) and for small-scale import of
Niche products from developing countries that are currently at the very stringent novel food regulation
subject. (E)

LET FARMERS FREE SEEDS DEVELOP, MANAGE AND USE
Already selected ten thousand years and ennoble farmers crops. This allows currently exist hundreds of thousands
varieties with growth and income adapted to the climate, soil, natural vegetation and sickness and
infestation of the landscape in which they are grown. The sovereignty freely on the so-developed seeds
to have, by the recently proposed seed legislation (European Commission) completely eroded.
71. We therefore call for the right to free exchange of seeds and the adaptation of patent law
so traditional landraces can not simply be privatized through genetic modification. (E)
72. Protecting and increasing the genetic diversity of crops will be central to the
revision of EU legislation on plant seeds. Smaller seed growers have easy access to
European market. The CAP must change the trust laws so that power blocs in both
supply sector and in the market to be broken. Farmers and hobby farmers are free to make their
harvested seed to re-sow and exchange. (E)
73. Plants, animals, or parts thereof, as well as natural physiological processes or genetic codes,
never fall under the intellectual property of biotechnological inventions. (E, F)

SUSTAINABLE FISHERIES
74. The EU fisheries agreements must be revised in order to put an end to the industrial fishing out the
fishing grounds off the West African coast to the local and artisanal fisheries and food to
protect. (E)
75. Europe provides sustainable aquaculture, with special attention to the welfare of fish and reducing
the use of fish as fish feed. (E)
76. There are new guidelines for catch and killing methods, taking into account
animal welfare. (E, V)
77. Harmful fishing methods (which eg. The seafloor damage with beam trawls) should be prohibited. (E)
78. Moreover, the import of fish from environmentally unfriendly aqua cultures (Pangasius) must strictly
be regulated. Subsidy for the development of environmentally-unfriendly aquaculture we exclude. (E, V)
79. Green has supported the sustainable aquaculture slows further overfishing. (E, V)

FOR MORE INTERNATIONAL TRADE FAIR
There is enough food produced globally to feed everyone. Yet 800 million people suffer chronically
hunger. Inadequate local storage, transportation, processing and distribution are located, along with competition
agricultural products from the world, in many southern countries at the heart of food insecurity.
80. Take food out of global and bilateral trade agreements. Food is not just market product. The
current path to liberalization of international trade (and / or regional trade) causes great instability in the
world and disrupts local food markets in developing countries. In bilateral and multilateral
trade protectionism should be allowed where food security in imminent danger
come. (E, F)
81. Place the speculation in agricultural commodities on financial markets curtailed. Farmers can already themselves
years to hedge against price fluctuations by selling their harvest called. futures. The expected
harvest is then sold at a predetermined price. These forward contracts (futures), however,
39

traded in financial markets which involves speculating on the future evolution of prices
agricultural commodities. Speculative behavior would be responsible for 30 to 50% of the recent hikes
agricultural food prices. Speculation also leads to extreme price fluctuations that do not by
Laws of supply and demand can be explained. Green argues (along with the Farmers Union, incidentally) for
strongly recommend curbing speculation on agricultural commodities. (E)
82. Agriculture must in the first place, filling the stomach, rather than the fuel tank. Farmland where
crops grown for biofuels is no longer available for food production. The
increasing demand for agricultural land for biofuels also ensures the hood of valuable
(tropical) forest (for eg. oil palm in Indonesia or Malaysia). Recently (October 2012) was the original
European target of 10% blending of biofuels in the transport reduced to five
%. We strongly urge the impact of biofuels on the environment and food security closely
monitors and on this basis to adapt the objectives for biofuels. Where fallow land in Europe
is available, it is desirable in the first place to change for food production. The Flemish
agriculture does offer opportunities for other energy: recovery of waste streams,
cogeneration, solar and wind power. (E, F, V)

40

CONSUMER POLICY
VISION
As Green Party, we have a broad view of consumer policy. We are in fact
imbued with the notion that every consumer is much more than just another anonymous
user, it is a full person with a versatile live in a complex
society. Who civilians too much reduced to consumers, soon ends up in a system
where producers and consumers need to go into battle with each other for their rights to print
force.

We do not believe in that conflict model, which involves high cost, significant uncertainty
and unnecessary risks. We have more confidence in a system where there are clear rights and
duties for consumers and producers, in which the government regulates sensibly and
monitors, so that consumers get quality, safe and sustainable products,
without falling into a Kafkaesque system that is uninhabitable for producers. Who
good products and services will, should have healthy and motivated companies
good to sail to abide by the rules.

Therefore, we ensure that the burden of procedures, obligations and
control processes always properly matched to the scale and capacity of the
company. Thus we provide for small and start-up companies often simplified
procedure. Similarly, we create the necessary breathing space for craft production, even
if they are regulated less, yet remains transparent by its short
production chains. For that reason, the government should not always and everywhere want
intervene. Sometimes it is better to provide a neutral intermediary and customer
Producer assists in working out a fair solution.

In our view, the regulation and control by the government is a first guarantee sustainable,
quality and safe products, in the second instance is that of transparency and
clear and objective information to the customer. Were the last decades
driven by the green movement many standards introduced to man and nature
protect against harmful substances and products. Sometimes with success: the ban on CFCs
reduced the gap in the ozone layer, have strict standards for waste incinerators
dioxins drastically reduced and also the emission of particulate matter in
declining, even though we still regularly exceed the European threshold.

Unfortunately also suggest a worrying upward trend in many of the
so-called "diseases of affluence": cancers, infertility, diabetes, obesity, allergies,
lung disease. If we want to reduce this second wave of problems,
we must strive to modernize the health standards. It is best to
the basis of the following five principles:

The precautionary principle is central: as soon as there is scientific evidence that something
can be harmful, must be performed by progressive standards or needs a
alternative be found.

Most standards are about emissions, while public health exposure
is decisive, we have to reverse that logic. For particulate matter have been around Europe
exposure limits, so standards for the air that people breathe. When crossing
these limits are fined by countries than Europe. This principle can be extended
are to many other types of pollution that damage health.
41

Standards should be based on the capacity of the most vulnerable groups in our
society. For example, children are more sensitive to damage to the body by
chemicals, because they are in full development. Now its product and environmental standards
often based on healthy adults.

Norms and values ​​should be regularly updated based on the latest
scientific knowledge. Today, however, we run the scientific facts chase.
We know, for example, that the current standards for fine particles do not comply. Which should
be adjusted.

The risk assessment of chemicals should also take into account interactions
between substances. The risk assessment for existing (chemical) substances remains
largely based on the analysis of individual substances. However, this approach is to
simplistic, many substances are mutually reinforcing. That means an underestimation of the risk
for our health. So these enhancing effects should be taken into account
in the standardization.

In addition to these modernized rules we need sustainable and healthy choices among citizens and
Companies also encouraged by: focusing on green taxation 1 so that sustainable choices
be cheaper and more expensive choices unsustainable; forerunners in sustainable innovation
support via the top runner model and focusing on better information via
a law on the publicity of chains and a unified European sustainability label.

Because there are many markets where the producer or seller in a too strong
dominant state with respect to the consumer (and we mean consumers both here
on citizens and businesses), we also put a lot of measures to better guarantee
show that you get what you buy and strengthen the legal position of the consumer,
especially in situations where the producer or seller abused his power.

When consumer policy is also important that we take the Matthew Effect in our
policy choices. Citizens and businesses who find themselves in a difficult situation, because all
too often the victims of their weaker position. Therefore, we strive in our
policy proposals as much as possible for simplicity, transparency, and financial protection
automatic rights and guaranteed quality requirements.

PROPOSALS
FOCUS ON SUSTAINABILITY, HEALTH AND QUALITY
... IN THE FIELD OF FOOD AND DRINK
1.

1

For more help farmers make the transition to organic farming, it is important that sufficient
Support comes during the period for farmers switching from conventional to organic farming.
(V, B) The existing aid per hectare can be increased or supplemented with an additional income per
employee in difficult years. In addition, one can also work on price guarantees, following the example of
the additional allowances offered by the Dutch dairy company Campina to organic dairy farmers. Government
may very well be integral taking control costs for organic products. After all, it's not that the fair
farmers with the healthiest products pay the highest cost.

For more information, see the chapter taxation

42

2.

3.
4.

5.

6.

7.

Healthy food and beverage at the school (V, B) Green wants real action and results in the field of health
food and beverages in the school environment: in school canteens, the management of food and beverage
vending machines and advertising aimed at children. The aim of these measures should be that the power and
drinking habits of the children in our schools healthier.
Green calls for the introduction of the law on vegetarian and organic meals. (F, V, B), this means
that there is an adequate supply in restaurants must be from schools, businesses and administrations.
Green wants to ban the use of preventive antibiotics in livestock. (E, V, B) Increasing
resistance of bacteria to antibiotics poses a threat to our health. Experts draw all
many years of sounding the alarm about the rise of a new resistant superbugs.
For genetically modified organisms (GMOs) that end up in our store shelves, we want a
closing introduce labeling requirement. (E) So also these products derived from animals fed with GMOs
were fed, clearly recognizable for consumers. Green likewise precludes the release of
genetically modified organisms in our environment (GMOs), partly because of the high risk of infecting
non-GMO organisms.
The Food Agency should also be mobilized alongside its controls on food safety
control of food quality. (F) The food goals we mainly all the elements a
health can have an impact such as composition, the additives used ... With
food can within that framework, for example, are also made for additives
power supply.
There is a need for an efficient recognition policy and control policy for pesticides, which also eventually
takes into account the interactions that can occur between substances. (F, V, B) Mapping of these
interactions is important because in practice there is often used a cocktail of products. This
in-depth approach is the only effective way to reduce the impact of pesticides on the environment and health
drastically to decrease. That means that more scientific research needs to be done to
effect of these cocktails on environment and health. The problem of neonicitonoïden and their impact on the
massive bee mortality, shows that the industry is still a lot of critical research can and should
keep secret. That is indefensible.

... ON THE ENERGY MARKET
8.

Citizen participation is central to the vision of the green energy market: everyone prosumer (producer
and consumer). (V, B) In a decentralized energy market more and more people make their own electricity.
This may be an individual, at district level or by participating in a cooperative. So everyone can
social added value to monitor and participate in decision-making and share in the possible
profit. The participation of citizens provides a broad consensus and democratic management of the
energy transition. Energy Cooperatives we strengthen so. We provide a direct minimum holding
citizens in energy projects and also involve them in the siting of wind turbines and the example
development of energy landscapes.
9. More accessible premiums for energy investments. (V, B) There are many regional contributions to the
to reduce energy consumption. These are, unfortunately, not always well-known and / or are associated with a
complicated application process. Green wants these premiums may transform into simple discountsinvoice. In addition to this simplification, we want the creation of a premium office that the citizens'
customer friendly and proactively helps in getting the premiums.
10. Progressive electricity tariffs: a social and ecological measures. (V, B) by means of
progressive rates for electricity saving consumers firmly rewarded in their energy bill.
Here comes the first block pricing consistent with the basic consumption of a household. Above this
basic level pricing is progressive. People who have electric heating in transition
where they do not fall under the system of progressive pricing and receive solid financial support for the
replacing their electric heater and old, energy-guzzling appliances.
We flank the new tariff also a program for the renovation of the outdated
living heritage that performs energetically poor and where low-income people live. For this
progressive pricing to fully play, we integrate the current subscription and other fixed
costs in the price per kWh. In this way, the consumer immediately also has a very simple, transparent
yardstick to compare the prices of energy suppliers together.

43

LIVE AND WORK ENVIRONMENT IN THE ...
11. The government sets an information pack together with simple guidelines for teachers and traps, such as
regularly ventilate the room or of the class, the adequate brushing, and the choice of healthy
materials and toys. (V, B) Young children spend a large portion of their time in child care or
(nursery) classes. It is important that the environment is kept as healthy as possible. Through education
can also be the principle of physico-chemical hygiene are passed to our children on the basis of
simple examples.
12. Green advocates for the harmonization of environmental and product standards tailored to the most vulnerable groups
in our society, such as children, the elderly, pregnant women, asthma and heart patients ... (E, F, V, B)
13. Health always comes first. (E) Where there is doubt about the safety of these new substances
not widely used (the precautionary principle).
14. Healthy and ecological construction is the norm for Green. (E, V, B) For this purpose it is important that binding
Ecological criteria are for construction so that it no longer pollute the indoor climate.

... IN THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
15. Ethical banking should be the norm. (E, F) In order to crystallize it and to protect it from the
erosion of the term marketing, there should be a legal definition of the terms 'ethical'
'socially responsible' and 'sustainable'. These words serve as the word 'organic' or
'chocolate' strictly defined and protected. Only in this way the consumer can 100%
be sure that what is being sold as an ethical, really is ethical.
16. We want to improve the system nulstellingstermijn in credit facilities. (F) Green at that time
it campaigned for the introduction of the nulstellingstermijn. This measure helps prevent namely
people a permanent debt with them, by establishing a deadline for the
total amount due must be repaid. Under the current system, the consumer is only
two months before the expiry of the nulstellingstermijn informed (by registered mail
writing) that he must repay the full amount, which he recorded under his
credit facility. That period is too short, and will often have as a consequence that the consumer, who is not in a position
to pay the claimed amount at one time, another credit has to find to the previous back
pay. That obviously can not be the intention.
It seems to us important that the consumer is not for "surprises" will be placed and that, at both the
early as in the course of the contract is always clearly be informed of the
nulstellingstermijn. The maturity date of the nulstellingstermijn and its consequences are after our
proposed reform also included on all interim monthly statement which allows the consumer
be worried. In addition, consumers should retain the possibility to monthly
payable after the expiry of the nulstellingstermijn, until the debt is fully repaid.
17. Better protection against excessive lending by financial products. (F) More and more people get through
debt problems. At the same time promote large retail chains increasingly frequently own cards. Thereby
takes the problem of people in debt at an alarming rate. Green wants a legislative alignment
so that it better protects consumers against excessive lending and the proliferation of credit systems better
regulates.
We want the usurious interest being reduced count some companies to acceptable
interest rates (with a maximum interest rate of three times the average annual interest rate on 10-year government bonds
the previous year, currently about 9%). In addition, the problem of waiting lists in the
Debt negotiation services to be addressed. We also ask for an extension of the possibilities of total
debt to total and definitive indigent persons.

IN THE FIELD OF INNOVATION AND INFORMATION
Built-in counteracting aging. (E, F) We require indication of the normal life of
consumer goods. For a refrigerator should be mentioned for example: "Made for an average
useful life of nine years. For a washing machine should read the inscription: "Made for average 1800
washes ". For a car "Made for an average useful life of 12 years or 250,000 kilometers. This
strengthen the position of consumers in the economy and users brakes wastage. Producers who products
with deceptive aging mechanisms brought on the market are administrative and criminal penalties.
44

The corresponding guarantee is related to the normal life of a product with a minimum warranty period
equal to the current statutory warranty. Quality standards for products (including a ban on
'programmed destruction' and recoverability) must be laid down at EU level.
18. We are cutting the proliferation of eco-labels and combine them into a single European sustainability label. (E) The
label takes into account many relevant factors (environmental impact, use of
pesticides, fair trade, food kilometers, ...). The label in question gives a total score qua
durability and mentions some relevant variables for consumers (such as fair trade).
Of course, any system of labeling, product standards and compulsory information for consumers on best
European level be arranged. It is not feasible for companies to have to meet by region to
different set of rules and disclosure requirements. The EU must therefore legally define this sustainability label,
so that consumers can be reassured about the content of the label. Some of these products must also
can be exempted from VAT, or enjoy preferential rates (6% or 12%).
19. Green wants to use at a number of strategic product categories ambitious product standards instead of
ecolabels. (E, F, V, B) These standards are moving in time, and a long time is known in advance. Manufacturers
it can then forward in their research programs and their investment policies. Who does better than the
standard, is extra rewarded and the most durable product or technology is the best course of time the
new standard. Foreign examples (the 'Top Model runner' in Japan) show that this is a very effective
approach is to achieve green breakthroughs.
20. A consumer website managed by the FPS Economy. (F) The FPS Economy is developing in collaboration
with producer and consumer organizations a website where citizens in strategic sectors such as
energy and telecommunications, smooth a price and quality comparison can be made between the available choices
to goods and / or services. On this website, the FPS also creates a focal point for
group purchases, so who wants to participate in a group purchase, can easily get an overview
of the available choices. Supporting initiatives group purchasing is in fact essential to
To prevent abuse of power in markets with many customers a limited number of suppliers.
21. Green also works for the right of free advertising space in society. (E, F, V, B) If schools need and
children's programs on television remain free of advertising. There also need to be strict rules
introduced leading to a curbing of the many dubious claims which are found in all kinds
products, for example in the cosmetics sector.
22. Citizens and businesses know how much state aid they receive (F, V, B) we want the support for our
increase tax, then we have to bring more transparency to the state in which citizens and image
enjoy corporations. We want for example on invoices within the healthcare systematically
mention real support from health insurance, in addition to the amount to be paid by the patient himself, as
already done with the intervention of the national health services in many hospital bills. Every social
insured annually or every six months should receive a bill patients for medical expenses
paid by himself and to consult the social security line in an understandable way
(description required of the fees nomenclature numbers, not just numbers with codes). beside
we also want targeted information campaigns and general education in secondary schools around the
operation of our tax system and our social security.

... IN TELECOM SECTOR
23. In addition to the regional radiation standards for GSM masts radiation to electrical
reducing devices via the top-runners model. (V, B) The five best models set the standard models
fall outside the standard must pay a radiation contribution, calibrated to their percentage deviation regarding
The worst performing model of the five top runners. This provides a strong incentive for improved performance
irradiation plane. In addition, producers of electrical equipment are also required for the radiation rate
to clearly state the device on the packaging.
24. A compulsory basic package with digital television. (V, B) The government needs through a decree and in consultation with the
channels define a compulsory basic package that all operators should offer unencrypted on the
consumer.
25. Sellers in the energy and telecoms sectors have an active duty counsel as is already the case
in the credit sector. (F) This mandatory counseling takes place in function of the needs and financial
capabilities of the consumer. For this infringement is a strong deterrent financial penalty
provided.
45

... IN THE FIELD OF MOBILITY
26. Green advocates the reintroduction of the 50% card. (F) The SNCB is in fact in dire need of a
simplification of its tariff structure. Simulations also show that bought a ticket with this card
is almost always cheaper than the special plans offered by the NMBS. An additional advantage is that
it rewards loyal customers. With good promotion and allow use for the whole family this
a guaranteed success.

BETTER CONSUMER PROTECTION
FINANCIAL
27. A clearer displays of the surcharge to buy on credit. (F) For products or services that can be

28.

29.

30.

31.

32.

purchases on credit must always be clear what posted:
•
the price is at immediate payment (without credit)
•
what the final amount will be paid when all the payments go according to plan,
•
a mention "cost of credit" which reflects the difference between the two above
amounts,
•
the installment, the number of repayments and the amount at redemption,
•
and the annual rate of interest on late payments.
Persons with a deteriorating financial condition have difficulties in their consumer credit
payment must be made aware of their active reminders of the possibility that the law to
to obtain (if necessary through the justice of the peace) payment facilities (F).
The strengthening of controls by the competent authorities of compliance with the duty counsel informatieen for granting loans. (F) This will lead to a better application and
compliance with legal provisions to ensure that the consumer credit quality
and will be protected from abuse and that the fight against overindebtedness is engaged. Everything
implies that the FPS Economy must be provided with sufficient human resources and new methods
such as "mystery shopping" to identify efficiëntop infringements. To consumers who at the FPS Economy
complains that he is always informed the FPS's position on the dispute.
Ban on the peddling of credit products to public and public places such as
railway stations, metro stations, department stores and shopping arcades. (F) This ban we are proposing for
the many abuses at home and abroad. For the same reason we want in shops also selling
prohibit loans that required for the payment of a purchase in their own shop.
Green wants a full and regulated status of "credit intermediary". (F) Following the
intermediaries in banking and investment services and insurance, we want all credit intermediaries
subject to mandatory and certified training so that they are able to provide complete and accurate
to provide information on their products to their customers. When the credit intermediary is a company
(eg a department store), we will logically impose the same obligations on training
employees who offer loans to customers.
Green wants to make at least as strong consumer rights on mortgage loans as at
consumer loans. (F) Mortgage loans usually have in fact a greater impact on the budget
consumers than consumer loans. Therefore it is logical:

•

financial institutions are required to for the calculation of the variable interest rate, as
initial reference index to include the most recent;

•

switching to a setting favorable to the consumer for any byproducts
no influence on the interest rate of the loan;

•

switching to a setting favorable to the consumer for the by-products of a
loan, has no influence on the interest rate of the loan at the original institution;

•

lenders associate byproducts to a mortgage loan, be obliged to also
cost for measuring by-products to be settled down to, instead of only the interest rate of
the loan.
33. Green wants a readable and transparent electricity bill. (V, B) The National Bank and the Federal
energy regulator CREG have shown that increases in the electricity market are due
opaque tariff plans that use energy suppliers. For example, fixed parameters in the
rate formula increased total arbitrarily. Green wants a modification of the Act on commerce
46

to make them more transparent tariff plans and to prevent the energy in such an arbitrary and
devious manner increases. Also a working bilingual ombudsman intervening in complaints
citizens and work makes for better protection is essential. Regarding the distribution tariffs, Green wants
not only greater transparency, we also strive for one distribution rate. The merger of the Flemish
distribution to one Flemish Utility can help.
34. Divide the cost of the energy in an equitable manner. (F, V, B) Green stands out that the
costs involved are fairly distributed to the energy transition. That is not the case. So pay
especially families and SMEs through their energy bill for green. Big businesses
on the other hand benefit from reduced energy bills because of lower wholesale prices and the
many exemptions.
A more equitable distribution therefore be considered, including large corporations contribute their mite. At the
calculation of costs should also be taken into account the hidden environmental costs, so they do not
longer be averted on other continents or in the following generations. The cost of the
energy are not simply passed on in the energy bill. The government has a
Part of these costs and put public funds into this. Are also alternative financing channels
used as nuclear interest and revenues from excise taxes on fossil fuels.

LEGAL
35. Manufacturers are always fully responsible for the products they bring to market. (F)
People who become ill suffer as a result of pollution or environmental damage have a right to
fair compensation. Therefore we want, following the example of countries such as Germany, the United Kingdom
and France, introducing the concept of 'environmental damage' in the Civil Code. Thanks to this new understanding each can
natural or legal person (including associations and municipalities) suffered environmental stories on
polluter. Without this understanding it is indeed very difficult for victims of environmental damage to be compensated
for their suffering, because the irrefutable proof of causality is often very difficult or impossible.
The concept of environmental damage is complementary to the polluter pays principle, which was by the OECD in 1972
adopted and signed the Single European Act of 1986. The introduction of this concept will also
important milestone in the struggle for full compensation for all asbestos victims.
36. We also want to strengthen consumer rights in the scheme. (E, F) according to
consumer organization Test-Achats have to make the most common consumer complaints
with the assurance: "Many vendors do not respect the law or send hike the consumer when he
lawfully on the warranty legislation relies. The fact that no guarantee legislation in a lot of consumers
(sufficient) is known, contributes to this abuse. "The current legislation on warranty is not only too little
known, it is also poorly implemented and insufficient. Therefore, they must be adjusted:
•
Consumers have the right to assert the warranty directly from the manufacturer;
•
For all cases where the time required to restore the guaranteed device, unreasonable
is long, the vendors should be required, consumers who wish, during the
recovery period to provide a replacement device available;
•
After two successive repairs for a recurring defect must be made mandatory
replacement of the product by the vendor;
•
The period of six months to rebut the presumption of a lack of agreement to be valid
conduct should be extended.
37. Individuals who together are the victim of a case of "mass loss" may be a case together
pending create, set up a "class action". (F) about Green filed a bill
during the last legislative session. The government adopted the proposal, but added an important limitation
to it. Contrary to what suggested Green, can only happen to the group claim in the new scheme
through a recognized consumer organization, which must be a legal entity. Green wants to let this restriction
fall because they unduly restricts the rights of consumers.
38. The government needs are great advocates of the alternative dispute resolution (ADR). (F) To
courthouse steps often leaves very little room for constructive discussion. Cumbersome procedures and formal and
communication is usually limited to the exchange of documents between attorneys. Moreover, it is to
the end of a process often neither party is 100% satisfied, while the costs are often high. In the
case of ADR, as in court, appealed to a neutral third party, such as a
mediator, an ombudsman ... But unlike a court, the task of which consists in the third
bringing parties together and with them to find a solution (he says basically no solution). This
47

39.

40.

41.

42.

43.

44.

way of working is very flexible, less formal, faster and almost always cheaper than traditional
legal proceedings. If successful ADR, everyone is happy and the balance in the relationship between the
parties restored.
Despite all these advantages is still too little use of court dispute settlements.
ADR is not sufficiently known and thus inspires enough confidence. Therefore it is advisable that both
the government off as the business world and to organize an information campaign on the ADR procedure.
At the European level since May 2013, the ADR Directive to consumers of power. In order to meet
these European demands, there will be a central ombudsman (F) should be competent for all disputes
between consumers and businesses for which there is no other ADR entity in Belgium on
requirements of the EU Directive compliant. Some sectors of the Belgian business has already today a
well functioning ADR system that meets the EU's conditions, such as the Ombudsman's
insurance, Ombudsfin ...
The central ombudsman can best be financed (partly) by the business world. The requested
contribution must be fair and transparent. Companies against which complaints are few pay lower
contribution. The contribution of a company is best suited to the number of substantiated complaints against her.
In addition, also the method of calculating the mediation and its possible evolution over time
always be clear.
Green also has a bill for legislation around downloading files
copyrighted supposed to be paid. (F) In addition, Internet providers are responsible for the
copyright, without impacting the bill for consumers. The bill creates new legal
framework, a so-called "extended collective licensing" which the ISPs copyright
pay to the copyright associations. This means that they contribute a few monthly
euros paid for each subscription that offers very high download volume. In exchange, consumers get
Download for non-commercial use, protection against prosecution. Subscriptions with a
limited download volume should not pay this contribution.
To reduce the digital divide and ensure that the levy of these new rights not by the user
to be paid, Green Ecolo were also in a bill internet subscriptions
adds to the list of essential consumer goods that should be a maximum price. (F)
ISPs offer subscriptions with very large download capacity and make it as
illegal downloading possible. Their business model is based on the availability of cultural goods
for which they pay duties. At the same time complain Belgian consumers and their representatives
go over to the high prices of Internet subscriptions. Especially for a vulnerable public can price
such subscription as a brake on the use of Internet. Hence the licensing of our
bill is borne by the ISP.
Improving market in the segment of motor insurance. (F) The government must, in
collaboration with the insurance industry, to ensure that all charges for car insurance on the Internet
are published, so that consumers can compare. There should also be a public database on

motor insurance be developed so that the effective rates are compared within the sector
and unlawful discrimination can be detected.
The driving license with points is an ideal tool to ensure that people for their
insurance rates are judged on objective criteria related to their own
driving. (F) Such a system whereby the premium a posteriori can be differentiated is much fairer,
due to better reflect the individual risk behavior of the insured. Despite the fact that the
driving license with points has already been approved in 1990, it is still not implemented. However, 19
of the 28 EU Member States already such a system. By delays in the introduction of this system, which is already a small 24
last year, it is especially painful when you know that only seven countries in the EU more fatalities
than Belgium. A driving license with points would be a solid first step in reducing the number of
road casualties.
The free driver training must remain a real alternative to the regular driving schools.
All forms of driver training must, without discrimination, should be subject to strict quality standards
with emphasis on retraining and must be completed with a driving test administered by an
test center is independent of the driving schools. (V, B).

IN THE FIELD OF PRIVACY

48

45. The European Data Protection Supervisor (E) already has as main objective to get there
ensure that the European institutions respect the right to privacy and data protection where they
process personal data and develop new policies. We want the EDPS in the future
audits can make national rules to see whether the Member States to be treated with care
protection of personal data. Logical guidelines are furthermore:
•
People get full transparency about the information collected about them, and stored
processed;
•
Information storage of digital information, services and products are designed so that only
necessary information is stored for a limited time, a pre-described purpose, and where
be anonymous;
•
There is a level playing field for all businesses, with high privacy standards are respected;
•
Police, justice and intelligence services can only such personal information obtained from companies and
institutions they need to investigate a concrete suspicion, and then only under
control of a judge who sees to it that no abuse is made of this right;
•
There is a ban on companies, on pain of heavy fines, to data of EU residents by
play to authorities in third countries such as the US, except through official channels for mutual
Assistance happens;
•
There are legal protection given to whistleblowers illegal data gathering to light
bring;
•
A general and enforceable obligation to report data breaches occur.

49

CLEAN, AFFORDABLE
ENERGY
ENERGY: CLEAN, CLEVER, SOCIAL AND STABLE
VISION
The transformation of the energy sector is probably one of the defining challenges
where our society stands for. Energy, after all, not only plays a key role in our
economy, even in our daily life we ​​can not do without: to put on the light,
to heat our homes or water, to cook, to move us, to the computer
work, to do the laundry.

Everyone agrees that the current energy system to a thorough revision to
is. The exponential growth of our energy consumption and heavily damaging impact of fossil
fuels and nuclear energy on the environment and climate are simply unsustainable. There
open huge opportunities to throw it on a totally different approach. Green wants
do not pass up these opportunities.

We want an effective and equitable conversion of obsolete
energy system into a modern, democratic and sustainable energy model. That is not
only good for the climate, the environment and human health, it also anticipates the fossil
scarcity and rising energy prices. It makes for a truly democratic revolution
the energy market, in which citizens themselves can take on a central role. Further
it results in a much improved balance of trade, a lot less fuel costs and
many new jobs (studies talking about 20,000 to 65,000 new jobs by 2030). And
Last but not least is the best way to secure our energy supply. That
this is possible and affordable is confirmed by more studies. But then we have
now make the right choices: not clinging to the past, but full
go for the future. Further delay will only lead to higher costs.

Intensive energy conservation in buildings, industry and transport, and one hundred percent
renewable energy by 2050, Green goes for it. Sun, wind, water, geothermal and
sustainable biomass are our main sources of energy. Decentralized and centralized
power systems complement each other. Citizens participate directly in their
energy supply. We provide a modern and adapted with good energy grid
European connections. The costs and benefits of the energy is distributed fairly
and access to renewable energy and energy saving measures, for everyone
ensured. The competitiveness of sustainable enterprises will hereby not
be affected.

Nuclear energy is no more room. It is a polluting, expensive and dangerous
technology of the past and keeps the breakthrough of renewable energy against.

Fossil fuels (oil, coal and gas) we get as much as possible underground. From
new coal plants can be no question and the existing coal power plants
50

be phased out. Gas will play a role as a transition technology, but shale and
Coal gas is not an option.

This energy not only provides a complete redrawing of the energy market.
It also represents a major transformation of almost all economic sectors,
significant changes in behavior in the fields of mobility, housing, nutrition and so on.
Successful, permanent energy savings and sustainable energy supplies will only
succeed when energy users themselves are motivated and convinced of its importance.
Such forward-looking transition should therefore be based on a strong
common project that is supported by a broad social support.

PROPOSALS
A LONG-TERM VISION AND A STABLE POLICY ON BELGIAN AND
EUROPEAN LEVEL
1.

2.

3.

4.

51

Belgian Sustainable Energy Pact forms the basis for a rigorous energy (F, V, B)
There's plenty of time wasted. Only on the basis of a strong long-term vision and strategy we will create a
rigorous implementation could come from renewable energy. Green wants to leave the coalition
record that from the beginning of the new legislature, about the policy levels and in consultation with the
social partners, environmental organizations, the various players in the energy sector, consumer
and other relevant stakeholders, a Belgian sustainable energy pact established that our
energy supply, must safeguard our health and the environment. A large public support is
necessary here. This energy pact will lay the foundations for a coherent, efficient and consistent
sustainable energy and provide a stable framework for the necessary and urgent
investment and innovation that have to happen in the context of the energy transition.
Belgian ambitious goals set out the beacons (F, V, B)
The long-term vision is translated into intermediate targets for 2020, 2030 and 2040 in terms of
energy efficiency, renewable energy and greenhouse gas reduction, with a clear burden-sharing between
The regions will be determined.
Europe is leading an ambitious and legally binding energy and climate (E, F)
The European Union should take a leading role in energy use and greenhouse gas emissions drastically
reduce and realize the transition to renewable energy sources. In recent years, Europe
However, to unleash its leadership in this area. The weak climate targets for 2030 set by the European
Committee suggested recently (but still must be approved by the Member States) are downright
disappointing: 40% less CO2 emissions than in 1990 and a 27% share of renewable energy in total
European energy mix. For energy conservation targets were no longer presented.
Green continues to fight for an ambitious EU climate and energy package in 2030 with three
objectives to be translated into binding national targets:
60% fewer CO2 emissions relative to 1990,
•
45% of renewable energy in total energy consumption,
•
40% energy savings.
Towards a European Community for Renewable Energy (ERENE) (E)
Along with other European Green parties want Green to work on a European
Renewable energy. The aim of ERENE is to realize a sustainable energy transition in Europe
and to make Europe independent of fossil fuels and uranium. We want to geographical,
climatic and hydrological diversity within Europe to maximize the green energy
make a lot cheaper. The Central West European countries (Benelux, France and Germany) have
herein a pioneering role.
ERENE inter alia:
1) Achieving a good European complementarity of the various renewable
energy and anti-competitive effects on the price of electricity in the European Union
avoid.
2) A coordinated policy conduct in terms of the location and optimal use of peak power plants. These are
easy on and downward regulation power plants that serve as a buffer. It's not

5.

efficient that each country provides for its own peak power plants. This is much better at European level viewed
be, with which a pack of costs can be saved.
3) Working towards an effective European energy network and good connections between the various
national high voltage grids supply and demand better and cheaper to align.
Excess of one country can then easily to another country which is struggling with a flow deficit.
Strong regulation of the market and a strong policy monitoring (V, B, F)
To develop a robust energy policy, and monitor, and the energy in the right direction
to lead it is important to build strong energy regulators and a strong energy administration. There
should therefore be deployed additional resources and staff both at the energy administration (including Flemish
Energy Agency) and to the federal and regional energy regulators (VREG, CREG, Brugel, CWaPE).

DEALING WITH ENERGY EFFICIENT
Drastic energy is a prerequisite for a sustainable, affordable and secure energy
to come. The cheapest Energy is the energy we do not consume. KWh and the less we consume, the
less capacity we need to provide. To achieve a strong and lasting reductions in energy demand will
Green not only committed to technological innovation in the field of energy efficiency, but also at the same time
behavior changes, new business models and changes in the organization of society.

ENERGY EFFICIENT LIVING FOR EVERYONE
6.

7.

8.

9.

52

Green wants the entire housing stock in Flanders and Brussels as soon as possible, energy efficient and sustainable
Using a powerful collaborative project with several partners: the regional and local authorities,
the
construction industry
knowledge institutions,
businesses
unions,
VDAB / Actiris,
opleidingsen
employment organizations, environmental organizations, energy actors and other relevant stakeholders. In Brussels
Work Environment Alliance will do so further strengthened. In Flanders, the Flemish fragmented
consultation groups' Roundtable Building "," Building Innovation Steering Group "and" Transition arena and sustainable living
build "compressed into a forceful Alliance" Sustainable Housing and Construction "in imitation of the
Brussels model (and the Dutch and British green deals). In the context of this is an alliance
action plan for energy efficiency worked in the building sector, adequately resourced
are allocated and where different actors each assume their role. The approach is framed
within an integrated approach on sustainable living and building. (V, B)
The renovation rate (the number of dwellings in the total housing stock has been renovated annually
is), and the depth of the energy renovations, we want to at least double in comparison with the
current renovation practices. For this, a coherent set of policies is provided. This
go from smart financial support coupled with increasingly stringent standards, about
raising awareness and support for skills development within sectors and intermediaries.
A focused approach will be developed for specific target groups, such as the (re) rental market and the
socially disadvantaged. (V, B)
We support integrated approaches refurbishment with a view to making it truly energy efficient
the home. The current premium system provides for today almost exclusively in separate premiums for roof insulation,
wall insulation, and the like. This while quite a few houses require complete renovation. Premiums for such
extensive renovations are now a flaw in the policy. When renovating a building is however the
risk of lock-in effect 'which once performed a renovation, there no longer will be thorough renovation
happen the next 30 years. This lock-in effect is to be avoided. The support we link
in addition to the condition that the renovation is done according to the most ambitious standards. Thus, the
current standard for roof insulation as provided in the Flemish Housing us not nearly ambitious enough. (V, B)
In particular, the bottom segment of the housing market, which partially overlaps with the rental market, needs
revaluation and a specific approach. The renovation curdles there for years. Green wants for this extra segment
Make the effort and developing a more socially ecological program for total renovation. This is
also the best way to tackle the main cause of fuel poverty. Central to this
program is a proactive counseling involving different agencies, such as CPAS and local
cooperating governments. In Flanders, approximately 150,000 homes would be eligible for this
program. For landlords and owners who join this program, we foresee increased premiums

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

17.

53

for total refurbishment, cheap loans, guidance and funding under the third-party payer system. The
Premiums are first high but decreasing thereafter. We ask therefore efforts of the landlord, but
we also rent interesting. Thanks to this elaborated system of premiums, the landlord can be functioned as
upgrade. Each state of a rented house is linked to the requirement to lease the property
focuses on rents. (V, B)
We provide easily accessible information, guidance and counseling, including through local
housing and energy counters. Energy scans are the starting point of a path to energy savings
which is an E-level set the ultimate goal of a complete process. We want superficial patching up
avoid. (V, B)
By adequate and accessible financing instruments and models we foresee lower
the threshold to invest in energy renovation. Third payer systems with public or private
energy service companies (ESCOs), we hereby give priority and we want to develop further. This
companies themselves are responsible for the energy-saving investments and for a number of years, the
investment cost with (part of) the profit paid back on energy consumption. Then the profit goes to
lower energy bills entirely to the subject. The various players, including the Flemish
Energy, the Energy Fund, the Fund for the Reduction of Overall energy costs, the distribution companies,
but also private actors and banks, up to coordinated and more streamlined. The
government instruments is hereby simplified and optimized. (V)
The reduction fund Overall energy costs we transform into stronger social
weak and landlords. So we want the lake can provide an answer to the dilemma that the
Landlord invest but the benefits for the tenant, accelerating the repayment period and the local
entity as an applicant for financial incentives to occur. Comply with the foregoing proposals, we want
which is also structural renovation works within the framework of structural total renovation can be inserted. (V,
B)
Belgium is an absolute leader in terms of sustainable construction. In the Brussels-Capital
Region has been decided that from January 1, 2015 the passive standard for (private) construction and low
energy standard to apply heavy renovations. In Flanders Green wants an ambitious and transparent
verstrengingspad provided, which from 2018 to the nearly zero-energy standard is valid for all new
homes. This means that new homes built since then almost no or very little energy
use (E level below or equal to E30) and the energy required still comes mainly from local
renewables. An important consideration here are the materials used. This also
must meet high ecological standards. In other words, there must be taken into account, the total
energy according to the 'cradle to cradle' principle. Be provided premiums are precursors
phased out ahead of the norm. Belgium can thus anticipate the European directive which requires us to
from 2021 all build our new buildings are nearly zero energy. (B, V)
We will launch an incentive program for neighborhood-oriented renovations, ecological urban renewal projects
social and eco-districts. For this, including funds made available from the Urban and the Climate Fund.
Within a district-oriented renovation approach can indeed be exploited synergies and may be a more
integrated and cost-effective approach used (energy, space, greenery, water management,
sustainable materials, social aspects, ...). Be one or several pilot projects per province
launched in the field of "social eco-districts", where there is also attention in addition to the ecological aspects
society issues (adequate social housing - social networks - more shared space and
facilities - multi-generational living, care). These projects can be an important exemplary turd
fill in up to standards of sustainability and climate-neutral regulations for all
new neighborhoods and new subdivisions are introduced progressively. Where possible, the initiative is in
Hands left of (future) residents and priority is given to cooperative
partnerships. (V, B)
Green wants to enroll more stringent minimum energy performance requirements in the regional housing codes. Every
(rented) house, whether it concerns an existing or a new home, must meet the
minimum requirements of the Housing Code. Currently the private rental market lags behind in terms of
housing quality and energy performance. Tenants pay sometimes very high energy bills. This is social and
environmentally not desirable. A property lease allowed only if it is energetically in order in the future. (V, B)
The Energy Performance Certificate we are into a battle powerful policy. Is so
For example, a (to be determined) minimum EPC-score 'as a condition for renting and selling
a property. (V, B)
For homes that are performing in terms of quality of living really substandard and a very thorough and costly renovation
would require to come to an acceptable quality level, is a new building demolition and replacement

good option. For this, one can count on specific support. Depending on the definition and manner of
count goes in Flanders between 20,000 and 100,000 homes. (V, B)
18. Green cover premiums to replace electric heating except when renewable energy
have source. We strive to 0% houses are electrically heated by 2020. In Flanders
11% of the housing stock is heated with electric storage devices. That is slightly more than 300 000
homes. They have an average annual additional consumption of 10 400 kWh. This drives their invoice from 1025
Euros or more, depending on the type of home. Therefore, they have every interest in the heating system
replaced with a more energy-efficient application. Green cover premiums initially more than
half the cost and wear it during the first years (eg three years), then they quickly
decreasing to finally extinguish out by 2018. (V, B)
19. Successful, permanent energy savings will only succeed if energy users and self motivated
convinced of its importance. Actions in the areas of education, awareness and sensitization
citizens are essential. Education also has an important role. (V, B)

ENERGY EFFICIENT PUBLIC BUILDINGS AND SCHOOLS GIVE GOOD
EXAMPLE
20. According to the European Directive, new government buildings from 2019 required nearly zero energy
(BEN) to be built. In Belgium, Green early as 2016 all new government buildings, according to the
Built BEN standard. An important consideration here are the materials used. They should also
to meet high ecological standards. In other words, there must be taken into account, the total
energy according to the 'cradle to cradle' principle. So we are a leader in the field of energy saving
build, we help to develop the market and create a pack jobs. And of course this also results
in lower energy bills for the government. (V, B)

21. The European directive least annually 3% of existing government buildings that are larger than
250 m2 to renovate nearly zero-energy, thorough implementation. (V, B, F)

22. For schools an ambitious verstrengingspad is provided in order to achieve energy-efficient
Schools (E-level E40). We provide earmarked funds to achieve this objective gradually.
Derdebetalerssytemen and funding from the Green New Deal fund may
investment threshold for schools to reduce a lot. (V, B)

TO ENERGY EFFICIENCY WORLD IN INDUSTRY
The Belgian economy, and especially the Flemish, is characterized by a highly energy-intensive industry. Three sectors
- The chemical industry, metal industry, and oil and gas - are responsible for the major part of the industrial
energy consumption. Striving for energy efficiency world-class in the industry is therefore not only a huge
lever for reducing GHG emissions, but also for strengthening the
competitiveness of our economy. Our industry has put the past few years, important steps in the field of
energy efficiency and CO2 savings and we have a number of sustainable world class leaders in our country. Nevertheless, it is
there is still a large potential for energy savings and to tap into this we want to use a range of measures.

23. At the sector route folders are arranged on an ambitious and binding targets on track
in terms of energy saving and reducing greenhouse gas emissions. To this are also
means coupled in terms of innovation and research and to stimulate precursors. Progress is
annually monitored and evaluated. (V, B, F)
24. A sustainable energy and raw material standard highlights the energy efficiency of enterprises and
fosters competitiveness.
As energy efficiency contributes to the structural competitiveness of the economy, a
proposed expansion of the scope of the 1996 law, which rests on three pillars: wage-work knowledge.
There would now be the pillar "sustainable raw materials and energy" to recover, which annually thoroughly and systematically
is analyzed. (F)
25. The bar for energy policy agreements with the energy-intensive industry is placed higher. There
more emphasis on quantifiable results commitments and a strict monitoring system.
54

26.

27.

28.

29.

The commitments are tightened for the whole sector and precursors to additional innovation support
count. (V)
The EU proposes stricter standards for appliance energy consumption. These standards are regularly
tightened in the light of market developments and innovations: the most economical technology is the new
standard. In addition, the feasibility of efficiency standards for industrial processes (in addition to the
existing standards for electric motors) studied paying attention to possible risks
for the brain drain to other regions with laksere legislation. For innovative projects with a large
CO2 savings are European subsidies provided to get to acceptable payback periods. (E)
There is a major leap forward to be made in terms of energy efficiency in SMEs. They
are strongly supported and mobilized contributions and eco-audits, awareness raising,
demonstration projects, green loans and financing models through ESCOs. (V, B)
Companies and business clusters are encouraged to take advantage of residual heat. To this end,
administrative, legal and financial barriers eliminated. Heat maps are drawn up and the
installation of heating networks, where this can be useful to harness the residual heat is (financially)
stimulated.
Green calls for a legislative framework for industrial estates that are sustainable over the line. This entails
following aspects: an efficient use of space (including joint use of infrastructure), presence of
greenery and nature, sustainable mobility, sustainable spatial integration, sustainable business processes (eg
sustainable energy, raw materials, water and waste management, sustainable supply chain management) and sustainable employment and
quality of life. There is hereby used as much as possible on closed cycles and ecological clusters. Thereby
residues are optimally used and the waste from one company to the other material. New
industrial estates are developed based on the above criteria and are obliged carbon neutral.
Existing business support to sustain themselves in that direction.

SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY (SEE ALSO SECTION MOBILITY)
30. We tap the huge potential for energy saving in the transport sector on a sustainable

31.
32.
33.

34.

35.

expand mobility policy. It is reducing the number of motorized
displacements and consequently tackling congestion, central. The example of Brussels next
Flanders is developing an objective to reduce the demand for car use. (V)
We reduce the transport needs including through proper planning and
Encouraging telecommuting. (V, B)
We invest in and encourage attractive relocation alternatives or the so-called "soft
modes ": public transport, cycling, stepping, auto parts, ... (V, B, F)
Unsustainable modes are no longer rewarded fiscally. Thus we are the tax advantages of
company cars for a flexible mobility budget that in time all fees
Commuting replaces. (F)
We carry the smart road pricing for all vehicles will replace the annual road tax
accelerated. This charge provides a fairer way to pay for car use. She creates simultaneously
resources to invest in more energy-efficient and less polluting modes of transport. (F, V, B)
The fleet, aviation and shipping, we create energy-efficient and environmentally friendly through
standards and a stimulating fiscal policy. (F, E)

Penetrator OF RENEWABLE ENERGY AWARE: UP TO ONE HUNDRED
PERCENT BY 2050
36. a is clearly, in consultation with the social partners, the energy sector and civil society organizations and
cost-effective growth path mapped out for green power and green heat with ambitious
intermediate objectives. The current Flemish and Belgian targets are certainly substandard. Green wants
that Belgium by 2020 at least 35% of its electricity gets from renewable sources. We want
also examine whether and how a complete conversion of the renewable electricity sector
energy by 2030 is achievable, as the backcasting study by the Federal Planning Bureau and VITO
was suggested. (F, B, V)
55

37. An efficient and cost-effective support framework for renewable energy creates a stable

38.

39.

40.

41.

42.

43.

44.

investment climate and ensures that we have the ambitious objectives in the most cost-effective
achieve manner. The support mechanism is clear, transparent and simple. It makes a correct return
and optimal operation and avoids excessive profits. Only sustainable renewable
energy production is supported. The Flemish green certificate system (GSC) and
combined heat and power (CHP) is adapted and simplified according to these principles.
Small (new) installations (<10 kWp), such as residential solar panels, are extracted from the complex GSCsysteem and can possibly (if this proves necessary) rely on a simple
incentive bonus. (V)
Sustainable and promising technologies receive adequate support. The aid will be soon enough
reduced on the basis of market developments and reaches zero when the cost of locally generated green
current is equal to the cost of conventional power. For instance, solar panels already (taking into account the
current parameters: electricity price, investment cost, application of back turning counter, no
netvergoeding) viable without support. (V)
To reduce the support for renewable energy faster we create a level playing field
between renewable and fossil / nuclear energy. To this end, within a European and international
framework, (whether or not concealed) fossil fuel subsidies to be phased out and
energy taxes will be reformed so that they take greater account of the external costs of the
various energy sources (both production, transport and consumption). We want both fossil,
nuclear and renewable energies, to correct prices which also addresses the social costs
and benefits (health impacts, climate change, pollution, ...) are contained. For example, there must be
For example, a correct CO2 price to be established on a European level, and can be the existing framework
minimum excise duties are used to real costs. (E, F)
There is plenty of efforts to further technological developments and innovation of the various
renewable energy technologies, taking maximum account of the own
industrial potential. New technologies, such as for example in the building integrated solar panels
(building integrated PV), are picked up quickly in the support mechanisms. In this manner, the will
investments translate into job creation and a strengthening of the Belgian trade balance. (V, B)
Grey power we get from resolute policies in support of green electricity. This applies
for residual waste incineration plants (municipal waste incineration). In the context of the evolution towards
a circular economy, we want to reduce waste incineration as possible and certainly not subsidize.
To support energy generation from biomass strict sustainability criteria are linked,
because it is not always a sustainable form of energy generation. The burning of biomass in
coal plants is no longer supported. (V, B)
The priority access for renewable energy to the transmission network is anchored by law,
whereby in case of an oversupply of electricity First polluting electricity generators them
production to shut down or adjust. If this is not possible, these inflexible power plants must
reimburse any shutdown of renewable power plants. This ensures extra incentives will be created
be for the flexibility of the energy supply, strengthening the grid and the
development of specific storage and demand-side solutions to maintain the network balance (such as a Valmeer in the
sea, demand side management, etc.). Disconnection of renewable energy is minimized. (F, V, B)
Security of supply is primarily guaranteed by betting strongly on reduced
energy, rapid development of renewable energy sources, adjusted distribution and
transmission, good European connections, an optimal supply-demand control and expand
storage. In addition, highly efficient peak power plants (biogas, hydropower or natural gas) used
be used, if necessary, to stabbing a gear. The implantation and deployment of this flexible peak power
As far as possible at European level. So we avoid that each Member State should provide its own
buffering and we save a lot of costs. (E)

45. The market mechanisms are commemorated in a function of increasing renewable
power and flexibility of the energy market. Thus eg. Flexibility can be reimbursed
are (V, F, E).
46. ​​The spatial organization of renewable energy we take in a global concept of spatial
planning. Thus, the appropriate areas proactively and in a democratic manner are selected through a
spatial energy plan and energy landscapes. This takes into account with energetic,
environmental, ecological, environmental and economic aspects. This is particularly important for
wind power and power lines. The latter are as far as possible brought to the ground.
56

47. An efficient licensing accelerates the turnaround of renewable energy projects. A proactive
spatial planning can certainly reinforce this. Public participation is provided at an early stage of
project development. The environmental permit will be introduced as soon as possible.
48. To finance the investments for the energy we mobilize alongside the public
investment channels also private resources. Thus, for example, citizens are encouraged to invest in
energy efficient making their home to install solar panels or to participate in a
energy cooperative. We also activate dormant savings through a "Green New Deal" -beleggingsfonds. This
public investment fund is managed by a government bank. She offers a wide range of safe,
sustainable and ethical investment in the future of their own country. This will allow citizens through this fund them
invest in projects for energy efficiency and renewable energy production and the double own savings
leave pay: for society and for the own wallet. Also on crowdsourcing we can get a piece
of resources in the direction of the energy channel.

SOLAR PANELS SUITABLE FOR EVERY ROOF
Solar power has become one of the cheapest green power sources. There is a huge potential
suitable surface buildings exist and there are still a lot of possibilities in terms of architectural
integration. The decentralized set-up close to the user are greatly reduced network losses. The installation of
Solar panels can be done quickly and the investment cost can be spread over a lot of individuals and companies,
without requiring high rates of return should face. Citizens are also active players in this way in the
energy transition. In 2013, the growth of solar panels but totally stopped and we want it again
stir.

49. A promotion and information campaign light citizens and stakeholders from the construction industry even better in the
Benefits of residential PV systems. (V, B)
50. Derdebetalerssytemen are promoted with energy service companies (ESCOs) and green loans to the
lower threshold for citizens. These are additional favorable terms (interest-extra
Accompaniment) offered to socially vulnerable families and collective housing projects (apartments)
to make PV systems for them also feasible. The reduction fund Overall energy costs are
hereby enabled. (V, B)
51. Collective projects are encouraged. Thus, schools and associations in their roofs
Provision for solar panels or enlist derdebetalerssytemen. We give a stronger
impetus to the development of solar projects at district level, with an important energy cooperatives
role to play. For example, an integrated energy supply to all residents / users
are offered, with only a connection to the distribution.
52. Waste solar panels are taken back and recovered in specialized recycling facilities. Per
solar panel, so a small recycling fee will be charged. Here, one could
cooperation with the European PV CYCLE recycling structure. The social economy is a herein
play a role. (V, B)

THE WIND IS FOR EVERYONE
53. A wind Decree provides for a regulatory framework for careful planning and democratic and
siting of wind turbines on land. This wind energy is recognized as a project of general
interest, the intermediate targets for the production of wind energy in the Flemish region
(or the procedure for determining which targets) embedded in law and these are further divided into
provincial targets. The participation of citizens in wind energy will have a central place. (V)
54. There will be a clear vision about the location policy of wind projects, where attention is paid to different
forms of wind and landscapes are taken into account energy, environmental, ecological,
spatial and economic aspects. This is integrated into the spatial energy plan. Bottlenecks in the field
of (military) aviation (radars, safety zones around airports) will be here as much as possible
eliminated. Based on these principles and the anticipated targets is a participative
planning process at a provincial level provided to indicate where windmills can be placed, and
where not. The municipalities translate these plans into a municipal wind plan.
55. The provinces provide zones for the exploitation of wind energy in phases after going through a
EIR plan procedure. Half of the wind will be open to the direct participation
57

from the local community (citizens, local government, businesses). A default fair
fee applied for reimbursement of the landowner. In this way, there is a stop
yelled the wind rush and can take enjoy the benefits citizens.

THE POTENTIAL OF WIND POWER AT SEA MAXIMUM USE
56. We make quick work of strengthening the transmission network, allowing a quick connection for
future offshore wind energy is guaranteed the transmission grid. In this way, one may
waterproof connection contract between Elia and offshore wind projects Norther, Rentel, Seastar, and Mermaid
Northwester emerge.
57. The support mechanism for offshore wind guarantees a stable investment climate. Is the support
sufficiently high to allow a correct performance.
58. There is extra space reserved for the further development of offshore wind in the Belgian North Sea. In
the context of the Marine Spatial Plan, a second zone designated within which concession
New offshore wind and tidal and wave projects can be developed.

BIOMASS AND SUSTAINABLE -GAS
59. Support for energy from biomass and biogas is granted only if strict
sustainability criteria are met. For example, a minimum of energy efficiency needs to be realized,
there is a lower limit for the effective useful and used energy must also useful heat
use. The sustainability criteria are based on the full life cycle assessment and taking account
all direct and indirect effects on carbon balance. Sustainability criteria also integrate social
aspects and human rights. Thus, the practice of land grabbing in developing countries need to grow
of energy crops will be prevented and must be prevented that the demand for biomass from the
biobased economy brings access to food at risk. The support for energy
Biomass must fit within a global framework for the sustainable use of biomass in which the
cascade principle applies: the priority goes to food, soil improvement, feed and materials. Energetic
valorization is only in fourth place. For the co-firing of biomass in coal plants is no
support more features. (E, B, V)
60. The durable support for biogas installations must be sufficiently high to have a minimum
return to guarantee. (V)
61. We are working on a legal framework for local biomass (eg. Verge cuttings) optimally
use according to the cascade principle, including enhancement in heat and electricity a role
fulfill. (V)
62. road traffic are required quantitative objectives or bijmengverplichtingen of
biofuel with diesel or gasoline not a good idea because they are not a sustainable solution. We put
in the first place in the reduction of the number of motorized movements. We also want to
realize the greening of the vehicle fleet (cars, planes and ships) through the imposition of
strict emission standards and further research and development for environmentally friendly alternatives (such as
electric vehicles, fuel cells, hydrogen combustion engines, compressed air, etc.). (V, B, E)

A WARM POLICY FOR GREEN HEAT
The heat makes more than 50% of primary energy consumption, and therefore plays a very important
role in the context of the preservation of our energy system. Green heat and cold also offer interesting
prospects for demand and storage. An intelligent grid optimizes the exchange between vectors
electricity and heating / cooling, so that energy efficiency is enhanced.
63. Also for green heat is set ambitious objectives and a stable and transparent
policy support provided. The Flemish Green Heat Decision is closely monitored and, if necessary
adjusted. (V, B, F)
64. Green heat and cold are used in intelligent demand management and storage (eg. Heat pumps in
with PV installations). (V, B)
65. In the calculation of the Energy Performance Certificate (EPB) is taken into account
heat recovery. (V, B)
66. We invest in the development of heat networks which residual heat in a useful way
be recovered. This is based on heat maps that supply and demand of heat in map
58

lead and match. There is an organizational, regulatory, task assignments, procedures and
develop financing channels. (V, B)
67. The deployment of heat infrastructure (heat grids, biogas injection, ...) or replacement of the existing
infrastructure is done in conjunction with other infrastructure decisions and -investeringsplannen. So
the decree obligation to provide gas connections virtually anywhere reconsidered in the light of
the rollout of heat networks or eg. heat pumps in certain areas. Also, decisions on new
industrial and urban development are also relevant. The heat infrastructure planning
also takes into account the drastic energy savings opportunities as oversizing or lock-in
avoid. (V, B)
68. The natural gas network is open to the injection of biogas. The supply of green gas
made possible by the introduction of guarantees of origin for green gas. (V, B)

CITIZENS TO TURN. LONG LIVE THE ENERGY COOPERATIVE
69. In a decentralized energy market more and more people make their own electricity. This may be individual,

70.

71.

72.
73.

district level or by participating in a cooperative. So everyone can bring added value to society
monitor and participate in decision-making and share in the potential profits. The participation of citizens
provides a broad consensus and democratic management of the energy transition. That is why we want a
give strong boost to citizen participation through awareness raising, information, training and guidance. (V, B, F)
Green calls for collective local projects (at district level, in apartment buildings or in industrial areas
for example) encouraging in terms of energy efficiency and local renewable energy supply. Herewith
We want the private interest (self-production and storage) and social importance (management,
financing and the stability of the net) balance and ensuring that those with less resources
it can enjoy the decentralization of energy.
Energy Cooperatives we strengthen. The legal and regulatory framework for the cooperative
company is improved so that the cooperative identity as defined by the International
Cooperative Alliance (ICA principles) is better expressed and protected. This is done on both
Belgian and European level. The distinction between genuine cooperatives and "façade cooperatives" can thus
become clearer. We want the recognition criteria of the National Council on Belgian level for the
Reforming cooperative. The advice of the NRC must include an assessment on the 7th ICA principles. (V, B, F, EU)
We provide a minimum direct participation of citizens in energy projects. In wind projects
should be opened to 50% for direct participation of the local community. (V, B)
Citizens are at an early stage in the siting of wind turbines for example,
power lines or the development of energy landscapes.

URGENT INVESTING IN THE FUTURE energy grid
74. The electricity networks, both the distribution and transmission network to be strengthened, expanded and
adapted to the energy requirements of the new model, so that a strong growth of renewable
energy can be well integrated into the grid. The new model is characterized by
a variable, fluctuating and decentralized energy. This presupposes, among other new requirements
for balancing supply and demand, and energy storage. The digitization and making smart grids
will play an important role. Smart grids and smart meters are initially
installed where they really can bring added value: to customers who also renewable energy
produce (such as owners of solar panels), industrial estates, large users, new construction or
district level for example. The basic principles in the areas of privacy and data protection, as
formulated by the European advisory body on data protection and privacy,
are hereby acknowledged. (F, V, B)
75. The necessary adaptations of the energy infrastructure in an integrated manner
Views: electricity grids, gas pipelines, heat networks and even telecommunications cables. A phased
plan of action will be necessary here. The decree obligation natural gas connections virtually anywhere
provide will be reviewed in the light of possible other environmentally friendly alternatives, such as
district heating systems or heat pumps. Priorities and a transparent planning schedule can be made on the basis
a constructive dialogue between the government, network operators, social partners, sectors and others
stakeholders.
76. Unified Flemish distribution grid company provides a modern and future-oriented energy infrastructure
59

The new Flemish utility provides a transparent and efficient management of the energy distribution network. This
unified distribution company will offer all customers a uniform service at transparent and
uniform tariffs. It builds the distribution network of the future out. The Flemish government acquires half
plus one of the shares of this new structure. Municipalities and cities can be honored by
its shares to acquire. Citizens also have the opportunity through shares or bonds to finance
participate in the network of the future. A utility company owned by the Flemish Government ensures that these
government unequivocally a partner in a path to more energy saving, energy efficiency and
renewable energy. The social importance is paramount rather than maximizing profits.
It also allows for greater democratic control. (V)
77. The EU's priority of modernization and expansion of the energy networks. So we want
develop an efficient European smart grid, with strong European connections so intense
power exchanges are possible. Energy networks are indeed limitless and therefore coordination and
investment at European level logical. (E, F)
78. Energy storage (with eg. Pump stations, power to gas, hydrogen production, heat buffers ...) and Q &
offer guidance be stimulated, through financial incentives, awareness and further research.

AWAY FROM THE NUCLEAR ADDICTION
79. consistently realize the nuclear exit (F)
Through a thorough energy policy we want to achieve the nuclear phase-out gradually and consistently. Too long
stick to the old nuclear power plants indeed increases the security risks and the risk of
blackouts because the reactors increasingly unexpected, because of security must
be shut down. It provides a further accumulation of radioactive waste and keeps the breakthrough
renewable energy by. Green is proud to be at the origin of the law on nuclear phase-out in 2003
was voted by the few green government and will consistently realize the nuclear phase-out. The decennial
life extension of Tihange 1, one of the oldest nuclear reactors in use since 1975, is already a
example of what not to do. The last nuclear power stations will close at the latest in 2025. New nuclear power plants
are of course excluded.
80. Nuclear profiteering skim through legislation (F)
The ratification of the amendment on the nuclear phase-out in a new convention between the State and the
operators, the Pax Electrica III, Green strongly deplores: profits for Electrabel are insured, while the
revenue for the State are uncertain: only if energy prices would rise sharply, for there is a yield
state.
Green wants nuclear profiteering, and thanks to the accelerated depreciation of nuclear power stations, to
value of 1.5 to 2 billion euros annually skim through legislation and therefore the nuclear tax increase.
These funds will be used to finance the energy transition: investments in renewable energy,
energy efficiency and a structural approach to energy poverty. This charge should obviously not be charged
to be consumers.
81. The EU will not support the construction of nuclear plants and only gives financial support to the
dismantling of old nuclear power plants as before no new nuclear plants in the place. (E)
If this condition is not met, the aid is repaid. Furthermore, the EU needs to state aid
by prohibiting a Member State for the construction of new nuclear plants. This not only means that there is no
Grants may be given for construction, but also that there is no guaranteed minimum price for it
nuclear power to the operators can be offered (as currently envisaged in the UK to
to make viable the construction of new nuclear power plants).
82. A good and thorough management of the nuclear legacy (F)
The core operators must make available to the government sufficient financial resources to the
to assure the dismantling of nuclear power plants and the short and long term management of nuclear waste. A

independent body to manage this money. Green wants to increase these contributions so that they are adequate and that
it is eliminated through the years built nuclear liabilities. The availability of the commissions
must be guaranteed at all times. For this, we transfer to the commissions from the Synatomfonds
Belgian state, NIRAS (Ondraf) or the National
Bank. Green wants investors in energy efficiency or renewable energy to 75% of the fees may
borrow, rather than the nuclear operators, as is the case today. The organ that controls
exerts on the Synatomfonds, the Committee for Nuclear Services, we give more clout.
Representatives of Synatom can obviously not be part of it.
60 83.
84.
85.
86.
61
Green wants an action plan and an accurate follow-up to the recently discovered leaking nuclear casks at the sites
Target and Dessel. These containers must not be stored permanently, as long as there is no solution to the
identified problems in the conditioning process.
A decision on the long term management of high-level and / or long-lived waste (category B and C) can only
when scientific research of this is completed. As long as there is no guaranteed safe solution
exists for this highly toxic waste that remains dangerous for hundreds of thousands of years, the need
long-term management option for this nuclear waste always allow the integrity of the packaging containers can
are checked. The waste must be recovered if necessary, to re-secure or
there are better management options apply. The highly radioactive and long-lived waste from nuclear power plants should therefore
not be salvaged as a final and irreversible concept.
Reprocessing of spent nuclear fuel is not an option for Green. We want the moratorium on reprocessing of
1993 is maintained and that all spent nuclear fuel legally considered waste. The used
nuclear fuel elements are stored at the site of the Doel and Tihange, like the
nuclear fuel elements that will come out of these plants in the future, should definitively as
radioactive waste are cataloged.
Nuclear safety is an absolute priority (F)
The government must update nuclear emergency and intervention plans that take into account the
experiences and lessons of past nuclear disasters such as Fukushima. The total area of ​​the Belgian
territory must be classified as a potential nuclear emergency and intervention zone, evacuation
of large cities like Antwerp, Namur and Liège planned, prepared and organized.
In recent months several security problems were identified: the thousands of cracks in the
reactor vessels of Doel 3 and Tihange 2, the leaking nuclear vessels and several anomalies in the functioning
of nuclear power plants. The stress tests imposed by Europe post-Fukushima brought several
problems to light. The action plans to solve these problems and prevent promptly and must
are performed accurately and followed. Here is the proper monitoring and follow-up by the FANC a
absolute must.
Nuclear investments only for research, storage and safety (F)
Above it is clear that there are very large associated costs and investments in the nuclear story: the
management of the nuclear legacy, safety investment, high investment costs for the extension of
Tihange 1, necessary research, ...
Since there is already a considerable amount of nuclear waste is accumulated, it is important for investigation of the
safe storage of this and the safe decommissioning of existing nuclear power plants and rehabilitation of nuclear sites
Continue continues. The Nuclear Research Centre (SCK / CEN) would focus exclusively on his
statutory function of research and development on radiation protection, nuclear decommissioning,
remediation of radioactively contaminated sites, finding solutions to nuclear waste and measures to promote non-proliferation.
Necessary
security investments
must
be
implemented.
All
other
Nuclear
public investment we want to reduce or can only under strict conditions. In accordance with the decision
to get out of nuclear power, we want every state to develop a new generation
nuclear reactors stop. The Myrrha project is thus removed.
Nuclear Operators unlimited liability (F)
Green argues for unlimited liability of the owners and large suppliers
nuclear energy in a nuclear accident. While operators of wind farms and gas-fired plants completely
are liable for damages in case of accidents, there is currently a maximum of nuclear accidents
compensation includes 1.2 billion euros. However, this is only a fraction of the potential damage caused by
a nuclear accident can be caused. Thus, the damage from the Fukushima nuclear disaster was estimated at 100
billion. That means that most of the costs are passed on to the government and
society.
Operators and suppliers must ensure also committed to the damage of a nuclear disaster and
a risk contribution payable for the part that possibly would still remain uncovered.
For the radioactive waste liability of the nuclear sector may not cease. This
implies that the nuclear energy sector should not only provide for the financing of the selected management concept,
but also into a fund to help improve manageability by future generations can be worked out
and a second fund, which, following unforeseen disasters and, if necessary, remedial action may be
funded.
Nuclear energy requires strong regulation and control ... (F)
A way to improve the energy market works, to allow greater competition and at the same time to submit to
stricter regulation and control, it is important that the role of the independent energy regulator CREG (Commission for Regulation of Electricity and Gas) is strengthened. It lacks the Commission
today still sufficient instruments to act as a forceful regulator. Vital
aspects: the independence of the regulator, the control of the regulator by the parliament,
powers to verify the actual costs and benefits of the various producers. It also
FANC, Federal Agency for Nuclear Control, should be given sufficient resources to its role as
perform independent nuclear watchdog.
87. ... and utter transparency (F)
This implies:
•
A transparent price for nuclear energy with all costs included and be internalized (costs
waste, nuclear liability, research and development, ...).
•
An honest communication about the risks inherent in nuclear energy and the cost of salvaging
radioactive waste.
•
The inventory drawn up by ONDRAF about nuclear waste and nuclear liabilities is drawn up every three years,
is open to the public and is discussed in Parliament. The annual reports
SYNATOM the Commission for Nuclear Provisions, ONDRAF and the FANC are publicly accessible and
are discussed in Parliament.
•
A decision on the storage of nuclear waste (category B and C) can only be taken if the results
his completed research on the feasibility.
•
A legislative initiative is taken so that all the archives of more than 30 years in the nuclear
sector, including those of SCK, IRE and Belgoprocess be public
•
SCK and IRE have a new legal status, similar to that of the VITO, with a
management agreement with the government is closed, after debate in parliament.
FOSSIL FUELS LET'S AS MUCH AS POSSIBLE UNDERGROUND. ONLY
CONVENTIONAL GAS PLAYS A ROLE AS ENERGY TRANSFER
The known amount of fossil fuels in the world still contains such a small 2800 gigatons of CO2. That's five times
much as our remaining "carbon budget" if we want to stop climate change. So we have to eighty
percent of the oil, gas and coal reserves under the ground allow. The twenty percent that we can still or
mine,
reserve
we
for
conventional
gas,
for example
from
the
North Sea.
88. Conventional gas as a transition energy (F & E)
Gas plays a specific role in the energy transition. Within a long-term vision must already full
phasing provided. In the medium term however, gas plants play a role as energy transition
in addition to renewable energy. The policy on gas must be part of a medium-term perspective
and especially avoid the consequences of "lock-in".
•
The construction of new, flexible and efficient gas plants can. But in order to supply the
guarantee, however, must be made in the first place work of energy efficiency, a better
network with neighboring countries, renewable energy and demand management
electricity consumption.
•
Capacity Fees for new gas-fired plants can be avoided if alternatives like
demand management, energy efficiency and optimal use interconnection with neighboring countries.
89. The European Union should play a greater role in energy negotiations with other countries and
regions, eg., in the context of natural gas contracts with Russia. Negotiating with one
common voice and position make the EU more vigorously.
90. Coal should be excluded as "environmentally damaging" energy source for power generation
in Belgium. There is an absolute prohibition on the construction of new coal plants in Belgium
and a phasing out of existing coal plants. Co-firing with biomass in coal plants is
no longer supported. (F, F)
91. No exploitation of unconventional gases such as shale and coal gas. (F, F)
Green leaves no to mining of shale and coal gas and put entirely on renewable energy.
The environmental risks and impacts are in the exploitation of these unconventional gases far greater:
groundwater pollution, desertification, seismic shocks, landslides, noise, greenhouse gas emissions,
and so on. Moreover, this implies the development of renewable energy at which the necessary
energy but only postpones and more expensive. Also, further research into non-conventional gases
consequently wasted time and money.
62 92. European measures to be taken to the import and use of energy sources that extreme
negative impacts on the local environment and the climate, to keep within the European Union
(eg. extraction of tar sands in Canada where the basic rights of the local population in various cases
are violated, and there is a particularly high energy input is needed in order to extract the oil). (E) The EU has
the law on the basis of the WTO rules (Art. XX (g) GATT).
AN HONEST, TRANSPARENT AND AFFORDABLE ENERGY BILL
93. We share the costs and benefits of the energy in an equitable manner (V, B, F)
Green means that the costs and benefits associated with the energy to be distributed fairly. That
now is not the case. Until now, almost all the costs of new energy infrastructure (GSC and others)
passed in the energy bill, which affected households and SMEs paid the bill. The big
enterprises enjoy a reduced energy bill because of the drop in wholesale prices and the
many exemptions. A more equitable distribution so urgently. To this end, it is necessary that all the costs
and benefits in a transparent manner to be analyzed and that a broad debate and broadened socially
through negotiations to achieve a fair allocation of costs.
94. We provide a cost-effective transition (V, B, F)
It may sound paradoxical, but the overall costs as limited as possible, we should as soon
possible deployment of an ambitious growth and investment path. That way we can cost over a longer
period smear, maximal advantage of the benefits and avoid double investment we follow tracks.
By setting up in energy efficiency and renewable energy we provide in any case for a
lower energy bill (though of course there is an initial investment cost). Proper carbon price and
a phasing out of the (possibly hidden) subsidies for fossil and nuclear power, can ensure
that the support for renewable energy can be limited.
95. The energy bill remains affordable (V, B, F)
For ecological reasons, it is important that the price per kWh is high enough to provide sufficient incentive to
retain energy. At the same time it can not be the intention that the electricity bill of the
families more aware of shooting because all the costs of the energy in the bill are
calculated.
Green will ensure that the energy bill will remain affordable for all, while ensuring sufficient
incentives be built for a decrease in energy consumption. How do we ensure this?
Firstly, through a policy that promotes energy saving, both through sensitization and by a
coherent package of support and normative measures for energy-saving investments. For
socially vulnerable groups, we also provide a specific socio-ecological program (see
above):
•
By ensuring that as many as possible at least in part, in their own energy production
meet (via solar panels, heat pumps, solar water heaters, ...) and so can enjoy them
benefits of the energy transition.
•
Through a fair distribution of the costs of energy, both among families themselves
and between companies and households. For socially vulnerable groups, we provide social tariffs (see
further).
•
By not all the costs of the energy transition by count in the bill, but other
financing methods for this bet, such as skimming of nuclear interest, proceeds from the
auctioning of allowances, general funds, European funds ... We set a ceiling for the
by taking the cost of renewable energy certificates. All costs go over that limit must be
paid by the government.
•
By opting for a progressive electricity tariff in place of a reduced rate of VAT: the
average costs per kWh (all-in price of electricity) increases as the absolute consumption on an annual basis
becomes larger. Who consumes less should pay less in proportion.
96. Progressive pricing of electricity: a social and ecological measures (F, B)
We encourage families to energy efficiency through progressive tariffs for electricity.
Here the first block pricing consistent with the basic consumption of a household. Above this
base level has a higher price per kWh. Heat pumps for an adjusted rate is anticipated.
To this progressive pricing to fully play, the current subscription and other fixed
fees mandatory when the price per kWh. In this way, the consumer also has a straight
very simple, transparent measure to compare the prices of energy suppliers together.
63 ENERGY POVERTY IN THE WORLD
In one of the richest regions of Europe no one should suffer the winter cold. However, this is exactly what happens. The
problem is called 'energy poverty' and it's the last decade increased unequivocally. Prevention is the best
approach. By resolutely put on improving the energy efficiency of our housing stock which will a Green
elimination of the main causes of fuel poverty. With current curative approach the government intervenes only in
if people already have payment problems. Installment Plans and budget meters, however, wipes the bleeding.
What these people need is a good home and an accessible basic energy.
97. Green extends the federal statute "protected customers" from a number of additional beneficiaries,
especially people in budget management, in corporate debt or with a OMNIO. Protected
customers enjoy a social tariff for electricity, cheaper than the market price. Rightsholders are people
with a living wage, with a guaranteed income for the elderly or persons with disabilities. To avoid
that more and more categories to miss this right, we can ensure an evaluation of the automatic allocation
social maximum prices. (F)
98. We procure the bare budget meters off electricity so that each budget meter is now becoming a
minimum supply available. The rollout of the budget meter natural gas is, for lack of opportunity to
a minimum supply, stopped. (V)
99. dropped consumers face many difficulties to return to the free market. Green takes the
barriers for return path, particularly with respect to the security. The guarantee now belongs to the
commercial freedom of the supplier. Green regulates liability in the legally regulated relationship between
the supplier and the customer, the so-called agreement, consumers in the liberalized gas - and
electricity market. (F)
100. Green applies the rules to allow people to pay off their debts energy at an average rate.
Currently they unload it off to the highest possible rate. (V, B)
101. Green drags on the cart that Belgium advocated a European directive on combating
energy poverty. (F, E) This directive aims to energy poverty final to help the world. They contain
A good definition of energy poverty, linking the solution to the causes and binding
timetable for Member States to achieve certain goals. The Directive also establishes a link between energy and poverty
health on the one hand and energy poverty and its high social costs in the form of
health expenses, school failure and disintegration into employment on the other. For countries that have strict
winter know, not only is there a definition of what a hard winter, but also a plan for the
protection of potential victims of fuel poverty in the winter.
64 CLIMATE
VISION
One of the biggest challenge for this decade is to limit climate change.
It is during the next legislative session that international, regional and local measures
has to be done, we want to keep global warming below 2 ° Celsius,
advise as climate scientists. The International Panel on Climate Change (IPCC)
clearly states that before the industrialized countries 80 to 95% less greenhouse gases
must emit by 2050 - our country so well. That is a huge challenge because
climate change requires action that permeate all areas. We therefore want our
economy put on a sustainable track and bring about changes in trends in the field of
transport and mobility, our energy and housing. Each level of government will be
territory and powers should pursue policies that climate change
counteracts. If we start right away it is also feasible and people, environment and economy
will benefit from it there.
The reality is unfortunately different. An effective climate policy is transparency,
genuine national management and coordination necessary. The appointment of a minister in climate
the federal government only has sense if this minister is also true power steering
get. Today missing instruments and bodies or they are not used to
coordinate and implement targeted policies. Even worse. The federal climate plan in 2012
expired, the new is not there yet. On the internal burden sharing of international
commitments has been negotiated for years. Flanders has a climate plan
Prepared 2013-2020, but this plan is not conclusive and does just the observation that
Flanders until 2020 at least 9 million tonnes of CO 2 will emit too much. Flanders plant so
to proceed with the purchase of clean air instead of on private land for
to ensure emission reduction and green jobs. The Belgian climate fog therefore very
some clout.
Climate change is a challenge that transcends the national borders. This calls for
an ambitious and legally binding international climate agreement in 2015. Belgium is too small
to single-handedly climate change to a halt. But that does not mean
our country can continue to wait until the international community is speaking out.
Instead, a climate agreement is not out of the blue. We have therefore also in
country needed more climate ambition. Each level has its responsibilities and
take action.
It's not an option to continue on the current path and polluting the problem
by scrolling to the next generation. Who is born today in 2020 for six years
old. Scientists agree that 2020 is the year of our emissions
greenhouse gases must peak to fall dramatically thereafter. By 2050, when the children
born today 36 years old, the carbon society must be a fact
are. By then, the climate-neutral society must be a fact.
Fossil fuels not only create greenhouse gas emissions, they are also
scarcer, more expensive and less predictable. Because of the problems now we can tackle
the costs in the future to incur lower. The only thing missing today is the
political will. The courage to make choices that improve our society and protect.
Amazingly, because radical changes in the areas of transport, energy production and consumption and housing to create opportunities, including employment.
65 The European Commission is already eighty percent of Europeans believe that
measures that are good for the climate is also good for the economy. Other countries
show that climate protection and economic development today go hand in hand:
so have companies with activities related to climate protection in Germany in 2011
already realized sales of € 45.5 billion. So now even politics. Green wants to make sure
the European, Belgian, Flemish and Brussels climate worthy of their name.
Climate change needs to be dammed, but now the climate is already changing. Flanders
recent years was hardened, petrified and crammed. That makes us more vulnerable to
the consequences of climate change. Water after heavy rains may difficult road making
increasing the risk of flooding. Moreover, Belgium and the European Union should more
efforts to support adaptation in the most vulnerable countries.
Countries in the South feel the impact the hardest, but usually do not have the
means to protect themselves against the effects of climate change. The
climate policy must protect everyone, wherever they live. And who the
heaviest (historic) responsibility for causing the
climate change, must also bear the heaviest burden on its solution.
PROPOSALS
CLOSING CLIMATE PLANS TO EMISSIONS REDUCTION IN OWN COUNTRY
SETTING UP
The shift to a low-carbon society requires a structural change in the energy system, the
transport, in terms of living and how we manage space. We work towards a sustainable economy.
Structural changes require more long-term view (2050), many changes must now underway
be brought to get a saving of 95% less greenhouse gases by 2050. The millions today
be used for the purchase of "clean air" we invest in climate domestically as
energy savings or renewable energy. These investments for reducing emissions and improving the
air quality, reduce energy costs, gain visibility himself back in a few years and create green jobs and
competitiveness.
1.
2.
a.
b.
c.
d.
3.
4.
66
The measures to be included in the climate plan focusing on a maximum emission reduction
domestically. This is made hard by setting a binding ceiling to the possibility of
Emissions to buy. That ceiling should certainly lower than the 30% percent by the Flemish
Government is not recorded yet communicated. (F, B, V)
If in exceptional cases, use should be made of the purchase of emission can
this only if there are a number of conditions are met. The National Climate Committee submits the
conditions and guarantees their execution: (F, V, B)
ambitious sustainability criteria and quality standards,
a blacklist,
clear definition of the supplementary principle, this means that the purchase of emission but
an 'additional' option and,
transparency.

The proceeds from the auctioning of allowances under the European emissions trading scheme
We use fully finance climate measures greenhouse gas emissions
effectively reducing. (F, V, B)
Green wants extra commitment to local climate climate through contracts with municipalities and boards. But
also with associations and / or companies that want to make extra efforts in terms of sustainable policy
Government contracts climate close to Dutch example. There they are already using 'green deals' to
To edit a sustainable turnaround in the economy. For the agreements concluded by the Central Government with
companies, associations, municipalities wishing to make additional efforts in terms of sustainable policies. In these
agreements or 'deals' is provided that procedures are shortened, the planning burden is reduced, which
Demonstration projects are supported that innovative projects, access to capital markets
is promoted and created with markets. (V, B)

5. Local authorities, for example by preparing the necessary SIPs the establishment of wind turbines
accelerate, deserve support. (V)
6. Also at the local level, we bundle all actions for the short term and medium term goals
to realize in a local climate. This Action Plan is the instrument for the efforts
evaluate local government. Annual reports to the public about the progress. There comes
financial support for the preparation and monitoring of this plan. (V, B)
7. Local authorities are encouraged to sign the Covenant 2 mayor. The regional
Government pulls the necessary resources for a baseline measurement that is necessary for developing the
Climate. Moreover, funds are provided for intermediate measurements and reporting. (V, B)
8. Provinces play a coordinating and supporting role for the local climate. They provide
signatories of the Covenant of Mayor strategic guidance, financial and
technical support. Flemish Brabant with Green on the board has been recognized as coordinator. We want
other provinces to follow suit. The Flemish government provides additional funds for it
available. (V)

BUILDINGS AND HOUSING
9. Regions bet on an ambitious renovation program. We double the renovation rate (the number
renovated homes) and depth of energetic renovation. We provide incentives for
renovations at district level. The current investment pace for home insulation is insufficient for our
retrieve climate targets. The regions would have every interest to stabbing a gear. Via the
climate accountability, providing the sixth state reform, they reap a climate bonus. Us
refurbishment employs a combination of ambitious standards with a clear and verstrengingspad
support mechanisms that are gradually phased out. There is a strong emphasis on guidance and
accompaniment. Energy audits are the starting point of a project to save energy. (V, B)
10. The Energy Performance Certificate we are into a battle powerful policy so that it can be used
be for normative policy in rentals and sales. (V)
11. We are committed to ESCO Initiatives (ESCO = "energy service company") in terms of energy savings or
energy renovation townhouse. With first and foremost focus on the socially weak (eg.
single-family homes and apartments of social housing companies) and for tenants (through mandatory
energy performance for all rental housing:. eg next to roof insulation, including insulating glazing and efficient
heating). (V)
12. For the lower segment of the housing market (closely resembles the rental market), we develop a
social ecological program for total renovation. (V)
13. The most cost-effective measures, such as boiler replacement, double glazing, heat pumps,
solar water heaters, ... with a short payback period are further supported financially and facilitated and,
in the last 2020th mandatory. The time frame for this is clearly communicated in advance. (V)
14. In the Brussels Capital Region is valid from January 1, 2015 standards for passive (private) construction and
Low-energy standards for heavy renovation. In Flanders Green wants an ambitious and transparent
verstrengingspad provide, at the latest by 2017, all new buildings are nearly zero energy.
These premiums precursors are provided, which are being phased out ahead of the norm. Belgium can be as
ahead of the European directive from 2021 all build our new buildings are nearly zero energy.
(V)
15. We provide premiums to replace electric heating. We strive to 0% electrically homes
heated to be by 2020. That's more than 300,000 homes with an annual additional consumption of
average 10 400 kWh. Initially we provide premiums to carry more than half of the cost of the
premiums afterwards to reduce and phase out by 2018. (V)
16. Renovation projects at district level deserve particular support. We will launch an incentive program for
district-focused renovations, ecological urban renewal projects and social eco-districts. The Brussels
approach "sustainable neighborhoods" can inspire Flanders. For this, among other things, funds released from the
City Fund and the Climate Fund. (V)
17. The government sets a good example. The federal and Flemish governments to follow the example of the
Brussels Capital Region where all new government buildings carried out according to the passive standard
be. All new government buildings let from 2016 according to European near-

European initiative which encourages local authorities to draw up ambitious climate targets and a concrete
Action Plan to deploy in order to achieve those objectives. The signed municipality or city commits to
monitoring and reporting.
2

67

zero energy standard (BEN standard) build. For existing buildings, we strive for the renovations
BEN standard. An important consideration here are the materials used. These serve to high
meet environmental standards. In other words, there must be taken into account the total energy balance according to
the 'cradle to cradle' principle. (F, F)

MOBILITY
18. Our mobility should be independent from car and truck. The next example of Brussels,
Flanders develops therefore a target for reducing the demand for car use. This requires a
cross-policy approach especially in terms of spatial policy and taxation are levers. (V)
19. Thé miracle solution to our unsustainable mobility system and behavior does not exist. We meet
the need to inform people better about sustainable mobility. Fossil fuels are limited,
be scarcer, more expensive and less predictable. And our space is limited so that electric driving too
can not be the solution. We want to guarantee mobility, we must radically sustainable mobility.
(V, B)
20. We raise funds for research and pilot projects promoting sustainable mobility. (V)
21. We reduce the demand for car use by adjusting the planning of the sustainable
modes of transport: walking, cycling and public transport. The new planning realizes proximity as
starting point for accessibility through a rigorous site policy. (V, B).
22. The conclusion of sustainable or climate areas is actively promoted. In particular, the aspect of implantation and
access by sustainable modes of transport needs more attention. In Flanders, municipalities are busy
the development of sustainable neighborhoods. Experience shows that the preparation of a sustainability standards
provides important context for the coherence of these projects. (V)
23. An ambitious sustainable mobility policy in cities and towns at the same time striving for sufficient space for
car-free zones. Cars we want to eliminate up from the neighborhoods and for local residents
car sharing systems and alternative parking spaces in parking garages at the edge of the residential area.
(V, B)
24. The energy taxation directive is reviewed and adjusted the minimum excise duties. The height of the
Fuel excise duty is based on the degree of contamination, making the excise duty on diesel sensitive Up
going. Our country will increase the excise duty on diesel to the level of neighboring countries. (E, F).
25. We put an end to the fiscal and quasi-fiscal advantages of company cars with fuel card which
private travel can be used. We are the tax advantages of company cars for a flexible
mobility budget that eventually replaces all fees Commuting. (F)
26. We carry the smart road pricing for all vehicles, which replaces the annual road tax,
accelerated. This charge provides a fairer way to pay for car use. She creates simultaneously
resources to invest in more energy-efficient and less polluting modes of transport. The smart
kilometer tax is charged per kilometer traveled. It takes account of the time, place and
maximum differentiated environmental characteristics of the vehicle based on the ecoscore. If a central
transit country, Belgium will benefit greatly from such a levy. Yields can provide the much needed
Injections in public transport so that it offers a real alternative to the daily traffic jams on us
road network. One of the biggest stumbling blocks is the cost for the installation of the on-board unit in all
cars must sit. We provide an intervention for the installation of an On-Board Unit (OBU) in
cars. (F, V, B)
27. A sustainable mobility policy is primarily for more efficient means of transport. Why worry
we for an improved range of alternatives of road and air traffic:
a. Instead of investing in new roads for motorized traffic we use the funds in
safe and coherent networks invest soft traffic. (V, B)
b. The bike has a central role in the mobility policy. We are committed to improving cycling infrastructure
by providing separate paths, extending the cycle path network for functional and recreational
use adequate and secure bicycle parking at stations and in towns. Investing in bicycle highways around
urban areas where the potential is greatest, is a priority. (V)
c. We guarantee an optimal financing of the railways so that the necessary investments to be made
in order to meet the increasing demand. Concretely, the REN (Regional Express) around Brussels
accelerated, but we also develop suburban areas around Antwerp and Ghent. (F)
d. On lines available there will be an improved offer and therefore we attract additional funds for the off
exploitation. They will pay for themselves because there are more people for their Commuting, but also
for their recreational trips use the train. (F)
68

e. The regional transport companies can count on a climate bonus to invest in zero
emission vehicles and a strengthening of the offer. The regions also ensure sufficient investment in
a high quality public transport. Specifically, this refers to new tram and metro lines, improved
supply outside the rush hours, better coordination, modal interfaces and work towards an integrated
ticket and rate). (V, B)
28. The EU strives for an international solution to the soaring greenhouse gas emissions from the
aviation. Until then, all flights which depart from or land at an EU airport among the
European emissions trading system. There will also be a kerosene tax. (E)
29. shipping is covered by the European emissions trading system. (E)
30. For further measures see chapter mobility.

INDUSTRY
31. Sustainable innovation. We embed a budgetary growth path in which there are at least 2020 European 1% norm for public R & D investment is realized. This means that the Flemish government annually
an average of 150 million in additional investments. In addition to the 1% target for public R & D funds must also
business increase its R & D efforts towards the 2% target. To maximize synergy
realize between public and private investment sets out a common plan. This
resources are directed towards sustainable innovation. By this we mean innovation that responds
on major social and environmental challenges. This is not just about technological innovations,
but also includes social innovation, social innovation (innovation of the organization of work) and new
business models, including in the services sector and social profit. The relearning of relevant old
production and / or repair techniques that we have lost sight of the falls below. There is a clear here
applied evaluation framework, so that the invested funds also effective in the direction of greater sustainability
go. (V)
32. We set up a catch-up for demonstration and pilot projects. There is currently in the channels for
Flemish innovation support little attention to the step between basic research and the broad
implementation phase. However, this step is crucial to the usability and robustness of an innovative
technology or approach to demonstrate and to put them in the market and possibly later to also
export. There is therefore a specific support framework will be developed in line with European regulations
for the evaluation and funding of such demonstration and pilot projects. (V)
33. Capture and storage of CO2, except natural storage is not sustainable and we do not support. The resources
it will be spent, may not be used for the investments necessary for a real climate policy.
(F, V, B)
34. We encourage companies to make additional efforts in terms of energy efficiency (eg. On trial basis).
The energy policy agreements for energy intensive industries which are not covered by the ETS regime show
little ambition. And for energy-intensive companies, the Flemish government opted for still not free ETSrechten. The potential for energy efficiency in Flanders is still gigantic. Therefore, we sharpen the
commitments in these agreements for the whole of industry. Forerunners who wish to continue on to
additional charge through climate innovation support contracts. (V)
35. In addition, companies are key for optimal utilization. Companies can invest in it
count on support (for example, the development of residual heat networks).
36. Companies that lead the way on material efficiency (waste prevention, and take back used products
closing cycles), we want to support. The ecology premium was until recently a very successful
investment leverage our companies not only environmentally friendly, but also made kostencompetitiever. In
2011 made increased regelneverij ensure that the use of the premium was decimated. Green will be the
ecology premium breathe a new life. Companies can submit three proposals per year instead of one
every three years. They are not bound by an exhaustive list of technologies that may be eligible
come for a premium but must comply with clear sustainability criteria and their proposal
as for 2011 by the Flemish Institute for Technological Research (VITO) is assessed on its merits.
37. Capstone is advancing standardization. The best students of the climate class (especially in terms of energy efficiency and material efficiency) set the tone and define the future standard for the entire sector. (V, B)
38. We can not continue to work in Flanders as a logistics hub. We focus on logistics flows
remain in Flanders and to provide real added value, eg. in the context of local food production, industrial
recycling and recovery activities, leasing products. Support for logistics companies, we propose
Therefore, depending on the innovative choices for working with integrated circuits, in particular for return - and
service logistics. (V)
69

AGRICULTURE AND FOOD
39. The Flemish Government is developing a transition plan for climate-damaging livestock. This includes plan
concrete steps, timing and resources to transition to a climate-friendly and animal husbandry
to Realise. In the short term, we provide financial support for measures that ensure a methane and
nitrous oxide reduction in livestock. (V)
40. Farmers through the establishment of peat or grasslands, through afforestation, by the cultivation of energy crops
or land restoration for natural CO2 storage concerns deserve support. Even farmers who switch
of production with high greenhouse gas emissions and land use to lower greenhouse gas emissions and
low land use are supported. (V)
41. We tailor the investment instruments VLIF on the needs of the agro-ecological
agricultural development. (V)
42. Farmers from industrial farming to make the transition to land-based agriculture to earn extra
support. Export aid will be abolished. (V)
43. Launch a program to encourage more plant-fledged consumption. A high consumption
of meat and other animal products is not only harmful to health but also harmful to the
climate. There is need for awareness-raising campaigns about nutrition, environment and health. To initiatives
stimulating vegetarian diet (such as Thursday Veggie Day) is granted support. And gives the government
obvious example. For advertising that meat consumption is cranking up the public
broadcaster has no place. (V)
44. We endeavor to ensure that the government needs to coordinate its purchasing it and inalle public institutions with a
dining (such as schools, hospitals ...) always offer vegetarian alternatives. (F, V, B)
45. In order to make consumers aware of the importance of local / regional and seasonal foods and
to stimulate short chain agriculture and -voedselproductie, we ask a government official label for that
local, seasonal certifies products based on clear social, environmental and
health criteria. (F, F)
46. ​​Food Cooperatives and organic markets where local farmers their products at a fair price to the
man can bring deserve support because they reduce the distance producer-consumer and thus the
climate impacts of our food system minimize. There is still much potential for state agricultural policy
will facilitate this form of locally based agriculture. (V, B)
47. In order to give consumers clear about what CO2 impact of producing, storing, packaging and
transporting a product, we set a CO2 label. This puts regional and
seasonal produce more to the attention of the consumer. Food producers receive an additional
incentive to work in the most climate friendly as possible. (F)

ENERGY SECTOR
48. We aim for 100% renewable energy supply. There will be a Belgian sustainable energy pact that
basis for a rigorous energy. (E, F, V, B)
49. We express our expressly against the extraction of unconventional fossil fuels, such as
coal gas or shale gas. (E, F, V, B)
50. We create a stable support framework with proper support for renewable energy generation. That
also means that waste incineration no longer be eligible for green certificates. (V)
51. We emphasize support collective initiatives mn decentralized energy (green power
or green heat) on bouwblok- or district level (collective solar panels, shares of local residents
wind turbines, micro-cogeneration plants, pellet or biomass plants at neighborhood level, etc.). (V)
52. We invest heavily in energy efficiency and conservation. We strive for strict (er) standards
energy consumption of appliances, vehicles and vessels. The most wasteful appliances may no longer
are marketed. The government sets a good example, both in terms of buildings and
vehicles. Local governments are via contracts climate supported by the Region. (F, V, B)
53. Research and Innovation in all aspects necessary for the energy to be
stepped up and provided with the necessary resources. (V)
70

54. We accelerated work of the development of smart energy networks (smart grids). (V)
55. We are great advocates of the use of residual heat. By pulling out means to heat maps
to make we bring the potential identified. This is also the requirement to provide heating networks a place
in spatial policy. For construction of heat networks will provide financial support. (V)

"MORE GREEN, MORE RESILIENCE" - NATURE AND CLIMATE BUFFER
The regions are also fully empowered to take measures to provide protection against the effects of the
climate change adaptation policies.

56. We are investing in nature, they serve as multifunctional environment buffers and protect us so
consequences of climate change. (V)
57. By investing in natural floodplains upstream we keep our houses dry. Nature
and green retain water in the soil. By ensuring that water can be infiltrate our soils
irrigated and water resources are replenished in the ground. That can best be done by the
creation of a blue green network throughout Flanders marbled. For this it is necessary that the
SIGMA plan is fully implemented. (V)
58. We ensure less paved area. The regional governments encourage existing paved
Surfaces are disconnected (streets, parking lots, industrial sites, but also roofs of houses and
sheds). New pavements are offset by softening in other places and water there
back to give the opportunity to seep through into the ground. (V)
59. By investing in large areas of nature and water in and around the cities, the government, the temperature there
sensitive lowering and thus counteract the urban heat island effect. Municipalities from watercourses
concrete pipes pick up and bring back above ground, get support. (V, B)
60. We encourage rainwater plans to deal more space for water so too in our cities and towns
reservation. (V, B)
61. There is a forest policy worthy of its name with an action plan deforestation and forest degradation. (V)
62. A more natural protection against climate change is the most cost effective and safe scenario
our coast. A good insight into the workings of this system is a good basis for sustainable
future. Therefore start the federal and Flemish governments an updated coastal ecosystem vision. (F,
V)
63. Following the ecosystem vision of the Flemish and federal government makes a Kappa Plan for our coast to
the example of the Dutch Delta Plan or the Flemish Sigma Plan. This is done in close cooperation
with the competent authorities, and related sectors such as nature and recreation sector. (F, F)
64. The plan for the protection of the coastal zone is not limited to the coastal strip alone, but also includes
measures for the hinterland and its waterways. (V)
65. Green rejects the construction of new offshore islands (see the original Plan Flemish Bays) as
must serve for new apartments, tourist resorts and hotels. We burden future
generations with much higher security costs. (V)

Europe is leading FOR AN AMBITIOUS, INTERNATIONAL AND
LEGALLY BINDING CLIMATE
International cooperation and coordination are crucial not to stride over the 2 ° C limit and to provide the necessary
adjustments to do to the already changing climate. A new international climate treaty is the ultimate tool
eminently therefor. That should come in 2015 in Paris to come into force in 2020.
66. Belgium and the EU commit to a new climate diplomacy with enhanced cooperation
within the UNFCCC framework of a "coalition of the willing" that is open to all countries
(industrialized countries, emerging countries and developing countries) consider climate change as a
serious threat and are willing to take concrete action. (E, F)
67. Europe continues to advocate for climate negotiations under the United Nations. The EU works
ensure that the negotiation processes more efficient and transparent. The new international
climate agreement is an ambitious and legally binding international climate agreement. Also, in the absence
of (ambitious) climate agreement be drawn up in Europe ambitious and binding targets. (E)
68. We go for a new climate agreement that (E, F)
71

a. is ambitious and just, with binding commitments for emission reductions and binding funding
by industrialized countries of adaptation, forest conservation and sustainable low carbon development
South;
b. emission reductions realized especially within the countries and not by trading in 'clean' air;
c. socially just development and for a state based on sustainable production and
consumption methods;
d. contains clear commitments on climate finance. The industrialized countries are responsible for
climate finance in the South. These resources are in addition to the resources agreed for
Development.
69. The creation of a compensation fund climate is a crucial part of a fair and equitable agreement. The EU and
Belgium play a proactive role for an international mechanism to reduce the impact of climate change on
to catch those who can no longer adapt. (E, F)
70. A key to the success of international climate summits is also in a good preliminary stages. In order to prevent
to Paris in 2015 a second Copenhagen, we prepare well for the climate conference. The EU determines its
negotiating position majority to speak with one voice. With less progressive countries
get along, the EU is strongly committed to cooperation with developing countries, especially in countries that
will be hardest hit by climate change. (E, F, V, B)
71. Europe sets a good example and show that it is serious. We will increase the objectives for the
reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 2020 and impose binding targets in the medium
deadline. To make new agreements, it is also crucial to maintain previous
appointments. Therefore enhancing its commitment to climate finance for developing countries concrete. (E)
a. In the short term (2020), we draw the reduction targets of 20% (which is almost reached), up 40%
with respect to 1990. (E)
b. In the medium term (2030), the EU Member States commit to a reduction of 60%
greenhouse gas emissions. (E)
c. There will be rapid and effective sanctions against those who fail to comply with their climate commitments.
(E)
d. In the south, many countries are already experiencing the effects of climate change. During the climate summit in
Copenhagen in 2009, industrialized countries entered into commitments to developing countries
support in their climate. Among other Belgium and the regions have in recent years
not bound by those agreements. That is unacceptable. The promises are kept. (E, F, V, B)
e. The EU sets a clear path for this international climate finance in the period 2013-2020. (E)
f. The EU emissions trading system (EU ETS), we thoroughly reform. (E)
72. For the other sectors outside the EU ETS, such as small businesses, agriculture,
buildings and transport, we advocate a European approach and regulation. A tax on gross
added carbon (btk) by analogy with the VAT charged the additional CO2 emissions in each production step.
This creates at each step of the chain, an incentive to the product with less emissions of greenhouse gases to
produce. (E)
73. The EU takes action against unfair competition from countries that do not participate in the new climate agreement. They
requires importers of energy-intensive products from those countries to buy allowances or to a
Paying CO2 import tax. So we ensure that the climate impact of our consumption also effective
decreases. (E)
74. Since 2020 the EU are not super greenhouse gases (HFCs) used in refrigeration systems and new
air conditioning. Green insists that the EU within the framework of the Montreal Protocol for Global
phasing out the use of HFCs jealous. (E)
75. As a result of climate change now and in the near future many more people their
abandoned residence. Especially people from the South who have the least historical responsibility and
have the least means to protect themselves against climate change are among those most
affected. There is within the international negotiations required an urgent response to the question of how these
climate displaced cope.
a. Belgium advocating the appointment of a special rapporteur of the UN Secretary General about the
issue of climate-related migration. (F)
b. Belgium takes the lead and urges the EU to an international migration policy with due
legal instruments for climate displaced people. Belgium also plays its role in international forums for sharing this
urge the agenda and tackle. (F, E)
c. Belgium develops programs for permanent resettlement of climate displaced persons and urges the
EU to to do the same, and according to the principle of equitable and balanced distribution of
charges. (F, E)
72

BY RADICAL REFORMS WE GIVE THE EUROPEAN
EMISSIONS TRADING SYSTEM (EU ETS) A FUTURE
Due to a high emission and the economic crisis is historically low CO2 price. There are too many allowances under the
market and in addition there are numerous loopholes to generate additional allowances from other countries
to finance so-called climate projects. Fundamental interventions allow the European emissions trading scheme (EU
ETS) finally working well and stimulate innovation.
76. Freezing of CO2 emission rights is not enough. Surpluses should be permanently deleted. (E)
77. In line with the more stringent reduction targets, also reduces the emissions cap for industry,
power generators, aviation and shipping. The linear reduction factor as the annual decline in the well
number of allowances determines is tightened. (E)

78. Flexible mechanisms to make additional allowances from outside Europe will be abolished. (E)
79. We propose a minimum price for CO2 which must be sufficiently high to make the necessary investments
to make a transition to a carbon rod carbon economy possible. (E)
80. We call for an independent European regulator. The European regulator determines and monitors
minimum and oversees the trading of emission rights and takes measures to speculation
tires to lay. (E)
81. If we in Europe in the future on our goals for running a click system makes sure that the
targets are adjusted automatically. (E)
82. Emission rights are always auctioned rather than given away free. (E)
83. Giving away free emission allowances to energy-intensive companies is for us not the appropriate strategy
'carbon leakage' (occurs when such companies establish themselves outside Europe costs
allowances to dodge) counter. Better targeting is providing support to innovative industrial
processes that increase energy efficiency and thus effectively save CO2. (E)
84. 2015 will show whether this radical reform of the Emissions Trading Scheme is being implemented. As
it appears that this is not the case, we are going to replace the system together with other green parties in
Europe and the world once again insist on the system of CO2 / energy - taxes. (E)

CONTRIBUTING TO CLIMATE ACTION IN DEVELOPING COUNTRIES
85. We support the concept of Greenhouse Development Rights. The idea is that each individual is entitled to
development, and not the states. So the rich from all the countries involved in the reduction targets,
while people who are below a certain level of wealth is the right to development
guaranteed.
86. Belgium is committed to climate financing for the period 2013-2020. (F, V, B)
a. The federal government and the regions must draw a clear path together for this
international climate finance in the period 2013-2020. The funds are additional and will therefore
on top of the budget for development.
b. In first place, the funds are paid into the Adaptation Fund and the Green Climate Fund of the UN.
Half of the funds must be reserved for adaptation to climate change.
c. Innovative sources of financing such as a portion of the proceeds from the auctioning of allowances, a
financial transaction tax, an international levy on bunker barges transport can help.
d. Investments must be closely monitored and controlled to the correct implementation of the investment
to guarantee.
87. In addition to financial support, we support developing countries through technology transfer. Belgium is committed
proactive solutions to enable export of know-how and intellectual property. (F)
88. projects in the least developed countries to achieve sustainable development have certainly their
added value. Quality and certainly not the price decides which projects in least developed countries we support.
Monitoring and evaluation are integral parts of the project. (F, F)

73

89. By focusing on the reduction of gases and substances that short-term greenhouse effect
strengthen and short stays in the atmosphere, climate change can be slowed down. This
category of gases and substances, including black carbon 3, often has a negative impact on the
public health but also tend to push back easily. Belgium violation of international and Climate
Clean Air Coalition at the UNEP. (F)

A DETERMINED ON THE DIFFERENT CLIMATE WITH AMBITION
GOVERNANCE LEVELS WITH ROBUST COORDINATION
An effective climate policy requires national guidance and coordination. The appointment of a minister in the climate
Federal Government only makes sense if this minister also get steering powers. Green is through the sixth
State reform work made of cooperation with the federal level. So we put a system of
bonuses and reduce the regions with greater responsibility in terms of emission reduction of greenhouse gases in the
building sector. A region does better than the emissions targets will receive additional funds. Like a
region makes it worse, fewer resources are made available.
90. Better coordination of the regional and federal climate policy. Therefore we improve the way
include the National Climate Commission. An annual activity report is published in a
joint meeting of the four parliaments. (F)
91. The federal climate services and coordinating institutions receive adequate and sustainable funding to
to assume their responsibilities. (F)
92. The national adaptation plan is implemented. (F)
93. Within the international climate negotiations, Belgium is generally seen as a progressive country and
this line we will certainly continue. Belgium remains committed proactive in the climate negotiations.
Therefore it is important that each state recognize its international responsibility in this and
delivers ambitious efforts. (F, V, B)
94. Belgium is committed to proactively for an energy and climate package for 2030, with three binding targets
(climate, renewable energy, energy efficiency). In addition, the target provided in terms of a climate
internal CO2 emissions by 60% by 2030. (E, F)
95. The national reduction targets for 2020, we go up to 30% and even 40% compared to 1990 if other
industrialized countries and the EU panning. There will be a closing mechanism for intra-Belgian
burden sharing. (F, V, B)
96. Targets in the short, medium and long term will be determined by law (federal climate change law and
climate decree and ordinance in the regions). The mapped path for emissions reduction is part of the
perspective of 95% reduction by 2050. A statutory reduction path with binding
between goals establishes a clear framework for governmental policy and provides investment security. The
reduction targets are in line with the recommendations of the IPCC and international obligations. (F, V, B)
97. The federal climate legislation imposes, among other things determine the operation of the National Climate Commission. (F)
98. The climate law is a framework law, a federal climate plan 2015 to 2020 shows how the
reduction targets will achieve. (F)
99. Closing climate plan indicate how we will achieve the reduction targets. There a packet is of
measures included in the assessment of its effects. Climate Plans are clear plans
concrete intermediate targets, timing, instruments and budgets. Every year we discuss in the
Parliament to implement this plan, and we propose new measures if the expected effects
disappointing. (F, V, B)
100. For an effective climate plan includes a climate and carbon budget. The climate change budget also increases
transparency. (F, V, B)
a.
A climate budget imposes a limit on emissions in each sector by the various sectors
five-year 'carbon budgets' grant. The federal carbon budget in consultation with
the regions established, the National Climate Commission this takes the central role. The
Carbon budgets define the maximum amounts of greenhouse gases over the next five years and are
established based on the long-term objective to reach 95% less greenhouse gases by
2050.

Is a component of soot and in urban areas largely from road transport (especially
diesel vehicles). In developing countries, the incomplete combustion of wood is a major source of black
carbon.

3

74

b.

To be able to adjust early, and sanction the climate budget is in a similar
way monitored annually as the regular budget. A parliamentary discussion is required and if
adjustments are needed are also proposed measures in the parliaments and discussed.
101. For the period 2010-2012 have already been made to agree on climate finance. Belgium has its obligations
honored to be quickly dispelled. These resources are additional, new and
predictable. (F, V, B)
102. We made an inventory of climate-damaging subsidies and policy practices. These grants deaf
within the legislature from. (F, V, B)
103. We conduct a climate test (cf. poverty test) for policies in other policy areas. On that
way, we can make corrections if there are effects on the achievement of climate goals are to be expected. (F,
V, B, E)

75

RIGHTEOUS
TAXES
TAXATION
VISION
A good tax policy for Green equitable and sustainable. We want legal certainty
guarantee to all taxpayers and tax work to achieve clear
certain goals. Taxation should be a powerful tool in the
sustainable production and consumption and the redistribution of resources.

Citizens and businesses rightly expect that no more taxes are collected than
needed and that it is clear for which serve contributions. They also expect that every
shall be treated in the same way. That who knows where he stands and
prompted a fair contribution to everyone.

Starting from these assumptions Green wants the current tax system thoroughly
reform along three axes: shift, simplification and 'verwitting. With
these three movements we can provide justice in a fundamental way,
increase legal certainty and efficiency of our tax system.

When the green tax shift we reduce labor costs, they shift direction
green taxation and capital taxation. Because of this shift, a work piece
cheaper without workers to lose purchasing power. Lower taxes on labor
boost the competitiveness of our economy, and create many new jobs.
Moreover, the shift towards green taxation provides a major incentive
more efficient in our raw material and energy consumption. That is not only good
for the climate and the trade balances of our raw materials poor country. It brings us
also a just economy that maximizes well-being with fewer resources. The
green tax shift is a win-win situation as there seldom arise.

Therefore Green refuses to go along with the downward fiscal spiral increasingly
countries are organizing to lure companies to their country. A strategy that forces them
to cut deeper into social gains. The Green Alternative to tax and
Social dumping is to bet on the development of sustainable benefits such as training,
infrastructure and cooperation. We throw away so no money to temporary tax
benefits, invest in things that are uplifting and unique. Just because the benefits
these investments are sustainable, even if government investment (temporarily) stops,
this gives businesses strong incentives to invest long-term in our society.

Green is also focusing on simplification, because usually it reads: "the more complex it
tax, how unjust it is. " In a complex tax system which
sufficient funds or specialist itself is enough, use the complicated system
less to contribute. Simplifying starts with getting rid of the unworkable
jumble of exception rules and favorable tax regimes. The complexity of the system
sees to it that specialists the loopholes and they know via lobby76

efforts sometimes further create themselves. This creates frustration among ordinary citizens and
businesses.

Tax systems should be explainable, predictable and understandable to citizens
bit to help. That is only possible by ensuring that every load easily
Calculating falls, so has few possible exceptions and a clearly communicated
aims. Pursuing a specific objective also means that green and
redistributive taxation is not used to fill budget gaps.
Adjustments to this type of tax may only be made to the policy of the
measure better to pursue. The capital gains or income that might ensue
thus only be the result of, and not the reason for the adjustment.

Support to tackle tax evasion, creating a 'verwitting' of our
economy, has in recent years greatly increased. We rightly expect from citizens
and economic competition that they play fair. When we talk about
"verwitting ', then it is important to distinguish between the fight against tax
fraud and to extensive tax evasion. To reduce evasion
the solution lies in improving the tax regulations. If we are simple, clear
apply rules with few exceptions, the option would contribute to tax evasion
reduce. In the fight against tax fraud, it is important to increase the chance of being caught
by working with simple controllable systems. The punishment for tax
offenses, we want to be high enough and we want to ensure that this serious
they are implemented. To this end, a decisive and effective justice system
a necessity.

In these times of crisis whereby the citizen ever greater effort is required,
tax evasion must be addressed as a priority. More inspectors bets
harsher sentences imposed, our country can afford billions of euros. Tax fraud costs
our state is estimated that nearly 35 billion euro. According to national bank
10 percent of them are fairly easily collected. That equates to more than 3.4 billion
euro. According to research by Professor Maus will in an efficient detection of tax
fraud, the returns even reach 17 billion euros.

In addition, our country and the banks that they have saved their notice to quit
tax avoidance activities through tax havens. It is also important to have a culture
Creating where fraud is no longer socially tolerated. This can, for example,
by the cost of fraud to communicate clearly arranged for the society to the
population.

PROPOSALS
SHIFT
1.

77

Taxes on labor reduce sensitivity to small and medium incomes. Because who does a lot
contributing to society, we reduce the burden on labor-sensitive because a tax shift from the
burden on labor towards the capabilities and pollution. Because it is a shift, and not a
unilateral reduction, we guarantee that government and social security have enough resources for their
operation fund. As a first step in this green shift we want to reduce the wage costs for wages
which is lower than a median full-time wage.
the employer side (F):
Through the progressive making the employer's wages lower than an average full-time gross pay. The
employer's contribution amounts to approximately 32 percent of the gross salary of the employee. We change nothing
the first calculating such contributions, because we the historical results of the social dialogue

2.

3.

4.

5.

6.

78

want respect. What we do is at the end of the calculation a progressive correction
carry out, which leads to the following system:
- Employer contributions are calculated using the existing systems.
- For the wages that are higher than the median full-time equivalent gross pay nothing changes.
- For full-time equivalent gross wages that are lower than the reference salary, we reduce
employer with a fixed amount for each percentage that the wages below the median.
on the employee side (F, V, B):
Through a wage bonus for those with a less than the median wage: employees full-time equivalent
Gross earnings are lower than the "reference salary" (the median gross earnings during the fiscal year), enter the
Government them a tax credit to a fixed percentage of the difference between their own wages and
reference pay close driving. That is, for example, 5 percent. To maximize the impact of this measure,
The estimated value of the tax credit is also deducted from the payroll. For example, the can
employees enjoy the tax benefit immediately and he or she must not wait eighteen months to suddenly 'a
receive gift "through taxes.
Strengthen environmental taxation (E, F, V, B)
Belgium brings up the tail of the international platoon in the area of ​​environmental taxation. Green's ambition
to eliminate this disadvantage and to reinforce the Belgian environmental taxation on the model of a
country like Denmark. We do this through:
• restructuring of the tax benefits for mobility by the rules in favor of the company to
replaced by a mobility budget, so that sustainable mobility choices no longer penalized fiscally
be, and people still get proper compensation for their travel costs. This reform will
under no circumstances increase the burden on labor;
• The budget-neutral introduction of a generalized smart road charging (for all types of vehicles,
both freight and passenger traffic) to reduce more by other road taxes;
• identifying and phasing out of environmentally harmful subsidies;
• introducing kilometers flying at EU level;
• modulating excise duty on fuels according to their environmental impact;
• an increase in excise duty on tobacco by 10%. According to the World Health Organization's Tobacco
namely still the second leading cause of death in the world. According to the World Bank is a
price increase the most effective deterrent to tobacco users.
We also advocate the creation of an ecological bonus-malus system. (F, V, B)
Green wants to expand the market of highly innovative and ecologic products, by granting a bonus
pressing the selling price in the form of an invoice discount. An eco bonus is awarded for a period
Up to three years, then the product can stand on its own feet. The cost of this system
recovered by a levy on the ecological worst performing products from the same
product category. This creates a fast high demand for innovative, environmental variations and
malicious variants rotated more quickly from the market. The ecological bonus' products in both production
use as many times less environmental impact than is customary. They therefore represent a significant breakthrough.
Within the EU legislation, there is no objection, so long as the system is non-discriminatory manner.
We reduce the unfair competitive advantage for air transport. (E)
Who ever follow the tank of his car, pay taxes, who the tank of his plane not ever follow. Also on the
renting a car or buying a train ticket, you pay VAT on airline tickets is not. In comparison with
other means of transport is air transport nevertheless hugely polluting. It is logical and just to this
distortions resolve by now also to raise excise duty on kerosene and to abolish the existing btwvrijstellingen on air traffic at European level.
Correct skimming the nuclear interest. (F)
Green wants to increase nuclear rate by 665 million euro and until the closure of the plants. Due to
which will increase the tax to the level of the independent energy regulator CREG forward
was pushed as a fair compensation for the benefits derived.
The smart kilometer tax will be accelerated, for all vehicles and everywhere. (V, B)
A mobility policies that leave the car as the main means of displacement and sustainable modes of transport
makes accessible, requires instruments that drive behavior. The instrument of choice is the smart
kilometer charge. This charge provides a fairer way to pay for car use. She creates
at the same time resources to invest in more energy-efficient and less polluting modes of transport. The smart
kilometer tax is charged per kilometer traveled. It takes account of the time, place and
maximum differentiated environmental characteristics of the vehicle based on the ecoscore. People get
therefore the opportunity to more rational to handle mobility.

There will be driven less by car, more quickly looked for alternatives, less in rush hour
be driven and be quickly switched to an environmentally friendly car. For Green it can
measure only in the context of a global shift of burden: to reduce the burden on labor, which
on environmental pollution will be increased. As a smart kilometer levy is introduced, the solid
annual road taxes abolished.
7. Conversion of capital gains taxes into one progressive capital gains tax. (F, V, B)
The increased contribution from asset which we aim at the green tax shift we realize through a wide
reform of the tax power. The current system for taxing capital income is
not only unjust, it is also fully fragmented and derailed, and is increasingly heavy on small
saver / investor, while financial institutions and large capacities are becoming more options
tax optimization and avoidance. Therefore Green wants the existing system of capital taxation completely
reform. In addition, we apply the following principles:
• harmonize the treatment of all assets (including rates), there is no logical
reason to punish people / reward for a different composition of the same capacity, moreover
This also excludes the vast majority of the loopholes for tax optimization;
• abolish the maze of exceptional rules down because these undermine both the productive capacities and the
principle that the contributions asked citizens must remain transparent and predictable; 4
• Do use progressive rates which everyone contributes according to their means;
• vote on the fee structure on interest rates in the financial markets so that the load is always fair;
• Work always with net figures (gains and losses, equity and debt write-off against each other) so that
becoming a contribution is requested on economic reality, not an accounting fiction.
From these principles, following a reform which we abolish all existing flat taxes on private capital (such as
movable and real estate tax, gift tax, the inheritance and registration fees) and
replaced by a progressive gains tax on large fortunes. This charge has an exempt
power disc which is equal to the net assets of a median family. The ability to share over this
to disk, rising per vermogensdeciel, progressive charge the same rates as in the
personal income, on an assumed rate of return equal to the interest rates on Belgian government bonds.
Municipalities may levy surcharges on the tax return on capital and thus their autonomy
keep.
Because household wealth is very unevenly distributed in Belgium (more than half are in the richest 10%) makes the
small increase in the tax burden on the super-rich families for a considerable yield. That while three
quarter of households should contribute less than they do now. Also with this return on investment, the large
capacities continue to grow, they will only do it a little slower, while small and medium capacities
will grow faster. The growth rate of income inequality that increasingly over the past decades
continued to increase is thereby finally brought to a halt. Finally get the smallest capacities and
the power of our middle-needed breathing space to build something.
8. Creating an output register. (F)
If we want to work with an investment yield, we also need a power cadastre
Entering. The register provides an overview of the net assets of Belgian households. The introduction of
this register is also a powerful tool in the fight against tax fraud. The real power
(the existing rateable value) is included in the assets register. This rateable
is
regularly
revised.
Moreover
must
there
for
all
means-tested
allowances / contributions / grants are always carried out an additional asset test.
9. Harmonize existing capital tax. (F, V, B)
An intermediate step towards our capital gains tax is a harmonization of existing
capital tax and eliminating the many exceptional regimes. It is then, for example, to
reduced rates and exemptions for a specific product. We want to treat
harmonize various components. Indeed, there is no logical reason for people
punish / reward for a different composition of the same power. Moreover, this harmonization close
Also the vast majority of the loopholes for tax optimization. That means among other things that we tax
on insurance premiums replaced by withholding tax and rates of withholding
equalize tax. The exemption for TAK-products we abolish it, and we do not create new
exemptions or reductions more. However, we retain all other existing product exemptions such as those for

4 Aid

a tax benefit.
79

keeps you better outside the tax rules. So rather give a discount on invoice or a subsidy,

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

5 Ter

government bonds. Finally, we globalize, in line with European case law on this matter, the exempted bracket
for passbooks.
Introducing a test for inequality measures which is already a regulatory impact analysis
get. (F, V, B)
Green is working towards a tax system that citizens and companies taxed according to their means. Green wants
derailed disparity between both companies and citizens themselves to portable levels
return. That is why we want to add a key to the existing inequality
regulatory impact analysis for the decisions of the various governments. That key must
redistributive impact mapping of government measures, and that based on an index that
inequality measure, including the "Gini index". On this basis, we targeted the tax burden
shift. As the strongest shoulders bear again, their share of the tax burden.
Golden parachutes discourage tax. (F)
Green wants the system of excessive termination payments, so-called 'golden parachutes' show
disappear. Therefore, we suggest that for people who have an annual income of more than 250,000
euro (net of social security contributions), a load of 100% is imposed on the portion of the
severance payments in excess of the greater of 250,000 euro than one monthly wage per year
seniority in the company. In anticipation of this legislation, the Belgian government should follow the example
pass to prevent the practice of "golden parachute" in public establishments for which they
shareholder.
Implement the financial transaction tax. (E)
The financial transaction tax - a variation on the Tobin and Robin Hood tax '- in the European countries that they
have been approved, including Belgium, carried out without delay. The proceeds will be paid to
poverty reduction and policies against global warming.
Taxing speculative value. (F)
Green advocates a tax on gains from speculative shares held short. This
tax applies to both individuals and companies, and will go out as a share of longer
is arrested. The purpose of this measure is to bring more stability in the
shareholding of listed companies, and to discourage excessive speculation without
Investors in good faith to punish that. Belgium is now one of the few developed
economies that are not taxed like capital gains.
This tax applies to both individuals and companies, and will go out as a share
longer be maintained. As in the UK capital losses can be deducted against
gains (a portability of one year). The purpose of this measure is to provide more stability to
bring to discourage the shareholding of listed companies, and excessive speculation
without penalizing investors in good faith before.
The rate on the net capital gains will fall sharply and even fall back to 0% once one one year the shares
or longer maintained. There are many countries, such as the US, which for many years successfully
use such systems from capital gains tax. We propose to work with a rate of 25%
of the net gain for the sale-purchase in the day, 20% within a week, 15% in the month,
10% in the quarter and 5% in the year, and this on the realized net gains 5.
Partly because of the intended behavioral effects is to correctly estimate the expected revenue for
this kind of tax not easy. In other countries such systems have nevertheless beautiful
yield. However, we charge only net capital gains (losses thus be applied against
gains and let's even room for transferability of losses). In crisis years, the
revenue from these taxes are negligible as a result. In years of strong economic growth will
This tax, however, generate serious revenue, for example, can go to an accelerated
debt reduction, in order to create the fiscal space for countercyclical policies.
We want to harmonize the existing tax on stock exchange transactions (TOB) at 0.65% (while retaining the
existing exemptions), and abolish the existing levy ceilings. (F)
By comparison, the charge that we are proposing already exists in other countries (mostly in the form of 'stamp
duty or stamp duty) and is for instance 0.5% in the UK and even 1% in Ireland. The
harmonization of tax at 0.65% would have no deterrent effect on the investor or saver on

By comparison, in the US is this tax, along with the 'long term capital gains tax "and the" five year capital gains tax'
the equivalent of our movable and immovable property tax. She is also applicable to all movable and immovable
goods, the only outside their own homes. The highest rate on their capital gains tax is 39.6% and the lowest
at 15%.
80

long term to invest. This 0.65% is in fact a small percentage compared to the inen / exit right of certain investment funds, which amount to 5%. This charge is indeed very
be daunting for speculators who are still running several times a day and sell shares.
Our estimated income of 300 million euros are based on income and rates of existing
stock market tax (TOB), according to figures from the Ministry of Finance. They are, however, a significant underestimation of the to
expected revenue, since this estimate does not take account of the abolition of the levy ceilings.
The actual earnings could well be much higher than the amount stated,
Nevertheless, we also opt for a conservative grading. The current tax rates and ceilings
Belgian TOB we summarize in the table below.

SIMPLIFICATION
15. Rates corporation decrease by favorable tax regimes to restrict. (F)
The growing number of preferential tax regimes make it increasingly easier for large companies to their profits
manipulating accounting heavy. Indeed, these tax benefits does a party of the
most financially strong companies there to almost completely avoid their fair tax contribution. The introduction of
a minimum tax for companies is a bad solution to this problem. They only fight it
symptom (extensive tax evasion) and not the cause (derailed a system of tax benefits).
At European level, we want to harmonize the corporate tax much more far-reaching. Green wants to
go beyond treating symptoms and tackle the problem at its root. This is possible by the budget neutral
abolish or limit as much as possible favorable tax regimes. With the money thus released, we want

81

then the corporate tax rates lowered to a level that is equitable for SMEs. On
European level, we want to harmonize the corporate tax much more far-reaching.
16. The transitional measure for the liquidation bonus permanent. (F)
As an independent stops his or her professional activities and decides to his or her company to
dissolve, then the reserves that have been built within the company throughout the years, paid
in the form of a liquidation bonus. That liquidation bonus is in addition to the regular pension and the
supplementary pension for the self-employed, traditionally an important part of the pension for
self-employed.
The rate of withholding tax (WHT) on the liquidation bonus is suddenly increased in 2013 from 10 to 25%.
Green was also asking to switch the RV on the liquidation bonus equal to the normal rate, because
a bonus which had become too popular building block in construction for extensive tax evasion.
But the way the Di Rupo government which tackled equalization shot his goal far beyond.
The higher RH appeared not only save future reserves, but also on the reserves from the
past. Normally happen pension reforms not retroactive, but only on
future rights and obligations. The government so shocked the legal security of our self by
the tax on this important part of their pension rights built up throughout the whole career, suddenly two
and to produce a half times higher.
By understandable and crushing protest against this ill-raising was there until the end of the
Legislature established a transitional measure. Transitional regime allows to build up reserves for 31
March 2013 (before the rate increase), partially payable to 10% when they first added a few more years
be the capital of the company (for SMEs 4 years, and for other companies eight years). The
seems fair that, as proposed by UNIZO, these transitional arrangements will be made permanent.
The advantage of this solution is that transitional measure is designed only build up reserves for March 31
2013 and thus excludes new construction. On the other hand they also allow the possibility of historically acquired
pension at the historical rate payable. Moreover, this system gives the new option
asymmetric distributions, which makes it possible to distinguish between a normal
Shareholders who wish to build up any pension rights and a manager who wanted to do it. This
solution thus provides a fair balance between combating fraud on the one hand and legal certainty
accrued pension rights on the other.
As an alternative to the old rules in favor of the liquidation proceeds can be considered a temporary system
increased voluntary contributions by the self-employed, in order to strengthen their pension from the first pillar. This
system would by nature be temporary, because we aspire in the future to an equalization of
number of pension and contribution regimes in the first pension pillar.
17. award Aid directly and not through the tax bill. (F, V, B)
The jumble of favorable tax regimes has made our tax system incomprehensibly complex. She has
also created a lot of loopholes that undermine the productive capacities. Therefore we must
Most of these favorable tax regimes phasing-out and the policies they seek control through non-fiscal
systems. As regards energy saving measures we propose to work with discounts on
bill and not with tax rebates.
18. Assign a maximum advantage one way. (F, V, B)
There are measures such as service giving three discounts: a discount on the invoice, a tax rebate in
personal income tax and a VAT exemption. In order to the efficiency and the transparency of this type
increasing measures, we limit it to one advantage. In addition, the preference is often given to a
discount on the invoice, provided that there is transparency. We always look to ensure that aid them
benefit to the support need it most.
19. Towards a system of guaranteed subsidies. (F, V, B)
If we honor tax exemption measures, then we will usually do so through discounts on the invoice or via the
settlement in existing benefits, such as disability. Sometimes these slopes are not a viable option.
Then we are working with grants. If we want to do that in an efficient manner, we must
reform subsidization system. Currently, most subsidies are organized as drawing rights
a limited pot of resources. If the pot is empty, no subsidies granted anymore. Taxation
measures, however, be limited by a budget reserved spot. If we limitless
fiscal measures to transform grants, subsidies should, as with the tax benefit,
be guaranteed to everyone who fulfills the conditions. The procedures for these 'guaranteed
to obtain grants', may not be more complicated than the procedures used in assigning
tax benefits.
20. blind to intelligent interest deductions. (F)

82

Green wants to reform the existing blind interest deductions (notional and ordinary) to intelligent
interest deductions. An intelligent deduction is unlike not blind to the current interest deductions
purposes of investment. Thus, investments in job creation, innovation and eco-efficiency to a higher
percentage deducted than traditional investments. Purely financial structures would fall back to zero
per cent. To the business environment for SMEs, we also want to strengthen the increased discount for SMEs
strengthen.
21. The government is bound by forks income per tax type. (F, V, B)
A government must provide certainty about the fiscal environment in which she carries out its policies. That's why she works
best with clearly communicated and if necessary even statutory yield forks. That applies
both the overall tax burden for each type of tax and tax base. This income forks
indicate the minimum and maximum fiscal pressure that the government can impose any kind of tax base. This
forks can be recorded on all kinds of ways, for example as an average percentage of the
tax base (eg. a fork which states that a company pays on average between 18 and 22% tax on the
profits of Belgian companies), as a percentage of GDP or as an amount in real or nominal
income. This creates certainty about the fiscal environment within which companies and individuals.
22. A committee for fiscal standards reduces fiscal transparency. (F, V, B)
There is need for the creation of a commission for fiscal standards. Outdated and unclear language concerns
namely common uncertainty. The commission should seek clear and well-defined concepts
which also seemed to be understandable. This committee will also directed to new tax rules
communicate audiences. This is done in cooperation with the sectors concerned.
23. To a considerable simplification of personal income without the progressivity of the system
Reduce.
Our tax system is very complicated. A tax Waybill is for many a tough job. Our system
of personal income can be greatly simplified by all the different deductions to
redistribute, include a lot of tax incentives in order to create an invoice discount, due to less tax
Benefits to grant a limited number of headings.

Warning
24. Introduction of a system of reverse control. (F)
Companies must already quarterly now make a list of a lot of tax data. Green wants
entrepreneurs reward each quarter (half year for SMEs) forwarding a report to the transparent
Treasury containing the fiscal choices and company data. It involves, for example the
rules used for depreciation periods, stock valuations, book transfers between
business departments and the like. After transmitting the data the Treasury gets three quarters of the time
to appeal against the choices made for that quarter.
If there is no appeal within that period, then they are regarded as approved for the quarter
issue. An additional reward besides these accelerated legal certainty is that the more information the
entrepreneur does, the lower he or she will be on the priority list for tax audits. This arrangement gives
more security for both the entrepreneur and the tax authorities. It creates a climate of dialogue and confidence
between both of them. For self-employed and SMEs with limited turnover is a private and simple
provide settlement.
25. A report by country for multinationals. (E, F)
We want a report for each country and enter a project for multinational companies established in Belgium. This
Reporting by country and by project not only brings transparency about business rates, profits and in any
land taxes paid, but also gives the tax authorities the possibility to profit from transfer pricing manipulations
between subsidiaries of multinationals to detect. Green wants to go to a situation where
multinationals are obliged to give an explanation of their affiliated companies.
26. No cash transactions in sensitive sectors. (F)
In sensitive sectors we want to introduce an electronic cash register and ban all cash transactions. To the
example of successful Italian Reditimetrosysteem we also want to link to Banksysgegevens
tax data. The resulting data must be directly connected to the central data bases
of the treasury and the Crossroads Bank for Social Security. Thus, the necessary data can be consulted by the
tax and social security administrations. That way there is full transparency in the sectors that work with
such systems.
27. A stricter settlement policy as fraud increases. (F)
Settlements in major fraud cases to provide a climate of impunity. This kind
White collar crime is still too often tolerated. A tough approach with low settlement readiness
83

desperately needed. Therefore, the prosecution strategy needs to be addressed in fraud cases. The flooring should the
prosecution priority increase and decrease the settlement readiness as the offense becomes heavier
and the fraudulent amount is larger. At present, the logic is reversed. Therefore feel alive as you
commit fraud,
you
best
heavy
commits fraud.
In 2011 expanded the federal government, the law on the amicable settlements from. Since then can their defendants
prosecution surrenders and maintain a clean criminal record. Which may at any time to satisfy a judgment, including
if the lawsuit is already running, and an investigating judge to the file already fully treated. Practice
where large processes are redeemed is untenable. Therefore Green wants the possibility of commutation
remove from the law to settlements, or at least severely cut back.
28. Extend notifiable economic professions. (F)
Green wants a graduated system of reporting requirements for economic professions in ordinary cases of fraud.
This concerns auditors, accountants, tax consultants, chartered tax accountants and
the like. When the practitioner of an economic appeal notice a case of ordinary fraud, he must
if they first warn the customer within this system that should be regularized. The customer then gets
six months to regularize and all of this is also made explicitly informed. After the expiry
This term, in the case of non-regularization, fraud considered serious fraud. At
serious fraud there is now a duty to report that leads to criminal prosecution if I stick with it
withdraws.
29. Equal weapons for all tax audit. (F, V, B)
The Special Tax Inspectorate (BBI) currently able to conduct banking audits only if there is a serious
indication of fraud. This limitation does not exist for other tax audit, such as the one
VAT and excise duties control. Green wants to equalize the screening rules for all tax administrations. Which can
inter alia, by eliminating all restrictions on the investigative powers of a specific
Audit that do not exist with other tax administrations. To investigate the financial position of
every taxpayer under optimal conditions, bank secrecy should be given at all banks.
30. Transparency around all bank details. (F, V, B)
We want the tax authorities to access bank data of all account holders with Belgian banks. In
France there is this system called FICOBA since 2008. It has since proved to be a valuable tool
in combating major tax fraud. Additionally, the European Savings Directive should also be extended to
an obligation for all banks to reveal the identity and bank details of all account holders
as a tax office asks for it. This relates to the tax authorities from the country of the account holder. This
is similar to the American FACTA law. The Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act provides for a
annual reporting to the IRS of accounts US
taxpayers outside the United States.
31. A longer period of limitation for criminal tax fraud. (F)
There are too many big tax cases which result in a procedure started with the aim of the limitation period
reach. Often these are complex issues that require a lot of research work. For this perverse tactics
to make prescription impossible, we want to enable the limitation period for ordinary fraud equals
which crimes (an increase of 5 to 10 years) and the leveling of serious fraud in the term
for non-indictable offenses (currently 15 years). Moreover, the limitation period could be suspended
are once proceedings have been initiated, until a ruling on the merits.
32. Towards a performance FPS Finance. (F)
Green recommends that the Ministry of Finance continued to build up a competent and customer friendly
public service that can regain the trust of citizens. For this, a master plan has worked
be that bet on increasing the manpower and technical support for our
tax authorities. An effective tax administration must be a cornerstone in the comprehensive tax
reform that we pursue.
33. Green also wants the 108 specific recommendations of the Commission of Inquiry tax evasion '
actually be carried out. (F)
That includes the import of a tax on financial flows derived from its
companies located in tax havens or in unregulated financial sites. This
tax is deemed vital in the fight against organized fraud.
34. Green advocates the gradual increase of the fines for permanent tax regularization. We want
fraudsters also cease to enjoy immunity when only partly regularized.
(F) If there is now a 'regularization' is done, the tax officer can not determine whether it or a total
is part settlements. He must accept that and could not inquire further. With the lifting
this restriction and the gradual increase in the penalties, it is perfectly possible to 200 million euros extra

84

pick up. If we were to implement a similar tightening of the voluntary disclosure scheme and the Dutch
Government did some years ago, the yield would be even higher.
35. We also want the loopholes in the capital gains tax on speculative shares
close companies. (F)
We are making the conditions necessary to enjoy the existing tax exemptions on capital gains. This
exemption in itself is understandable, because it was intended for capital gains on non-speculative
interests in other companies. Over the years more and more companies will abuse
making it supple worded exemption. We want to reduce the scope of the exemption to
its original intent, by a sharper delineation of the conditions for this exemption. Specifically set
we for the period (for which one must hold minimum shares in possession to enjoy the
exemption) increase to 5 years (with an exception for cases of force majeure) and the
minimum shareholding to increase from the current 10% to 25%. We expect that this measure
390 million can bring.

85

GOVERNMENT PERFORMANCE
VISION
In times of crisis, the government under pressure. From different sides advocates
for the reduction of the size of the public sector. The government must batter
be reduced below 50%, it says often. For Green, this is a one-sided
and negative approach. Across the 54% of gross domestic product at
public goods are, is also an important social return for the
citizens and society: excellent health care, an expanded roads
Public transport network, a subsidized sport and cultural activities, ...

Green will conduct the debate on the key government without statistics alone. It is
useful and necessary also to look within the government for greater efficiency, but not
from a one-sided saving logic. The government also needs to ask himself every day:
how do we ensure maximum efficiency for a service as good as possible
citizens. Does this mean that the government should do everything yourself? No, some things are
better left to the market or society. But the financial crisis has at
amply demonstrated that it leads the government as absent (or insufficient
is present. A strong government action, either directly or through regulation, is necessary.

Green advocates a modern, efficient government, which critically its own operation
dare to take a closer look, not from an outdated "minimal state" approach,
but just in view of an optimal service. We will also attach great importance
to the ratio between the higher authorities, and the lower level, that is currently
is under heavy financial pressure.

PROPOSALS
A GOVERNMENT PERFORMANCE, AT THE SERVICE OF CITIZENS
AUTHORITIES AT THE SERVICE OF CITIZENS
1.

2.
3.

Bets on e-government can both citizens and government save a lot of time and effort. At the same time we
being aware of the digital divide: not all citizens have the same seamless access to or be as familiar with
internet. Therefore, there remains a need for easily accessible administration. (E, F, V, B)
Better integration and referral between different levels of government. Citizens are indeed often
not whether the municipality, county, state or federal government has jurisdiction. (F, V, B)
A further option for administrative simplification at all levels. This should lead to, among other things
integrated permit (where you give the same no different permits
different counters must apply) and consistent application of the principle that the government among citizens
no need to ask for information that is already in its possession. (E, F, V, B)

A MODERN CIVIL SERVICE
4.

86

Green calls for further modernization of the civil service, but without statistics alone about it
number of officials. We are not for a linear reduction in the number of officials. On the basis of targeted
choices we want to see what more services and which services need fewer staff. Focus remains
a guiding government and good services.
This exercise may result in a reduction in the total number of officials, by the tapering of
planning burden, limit unnecessary to control him, by some tasks that non-core properly off
impact or by entrusting tasks to the midfield. Tasks give to the society also implies that

5.

6.

there is also plenty of subsidization in return. The reduction in personnel is only possible through natural
attrition (retirement, voluntary departures ...) happen. (F, V, B)
A modernization of the civil service is much more than just a debate about numbers. A modern
personnel within the government departs from the belief in the importance of strong officials. Green
slides include the following points stand out: (E, F, V, B)
•
Selecting more on skills, less on diplomas.
•
Making smoother possible combinations of work - family.
•
Invest in custom workspace and modern working methods. That means include
flexibility on telework or work on site assessment based on performance rather than on
Based on attendance, ...
•
Focus on growth opportunities, not only in their own department and elsewhere in government. Green advocates
flexible transfer options within different functions and departments within the same government,
between different governments and between government and private.
The Staff Regulations is already today a lot less rigid than a few years ago. For Green, there is no
need for an abolition of the permanent appointment. A modern personnel can perfectly preserving
a (modernized) Staff Regulations. There is a need for the progressive elimination of disparities

between statutory and contractual civil servants: today have a significant public service contractors
lower pensions, less often leave entitlement ... In anticipation of a strengthening of the statutory pension
all employees (see suggestions in the chapter Pensions), there is need for the development of a
supplementary pension for service contractors such as, for example, has recently started in Flanders
for local authorities. (F, V, B)

EYE FOR DIVERSITY AND SUSTAINABILITY
7.

8.

9.

The government belongs in its own personnel to be a pioneer in the diversity policy (ethnic cultural diversity, male / female, LGBT people, older employee, people with
handicap). Attention to diversity is important at all stages: recruitment, welfare at work, promotion.
The government actively seeks that its workforce as much as possible reflect the
society. We include relaxing the nationality requirements for public office. (E, F, V, B)
Diversity is also an important consideration in the composition of boards of directors and
advisory boards. Up to two thirds of the members of the Board of Directors of public companies, parastatals,
autonomous agencies of the same sex. (F, V, B)
The government belongs in its own operation to be a leader in sustainability policy. This may, inter alia,
through the systematic use of social and environmental clauses in public contracts. (E, F, V, B)

GOOD GOVERNANCE IN PUBLIC ENTERPRISES
10. Rules concerning good governance and integrity should not only apply to elected politicians, but also for
directors and CEOs of public companies. That means, among other things: (F, V, B)
•
A correct salary: away from the aberrant top salaries that were common or for certain functions,
and not overly large severance payments ("golden parachutes") more. So Green insists on a
consistent application of the federal principle agreed that the CEO of a public company not
may earn more than the Prime Minister.
•
Cumulative restriction, including CEOs and directors of public companies, combined with clear
ethics rules to prevent conflicts of interest.
•
A clear division of labor with politics more democratic (parliamentary) debate around
management agreements, less politicization of the Boards.
11. Establishment of Committee B (enoemingen). By analogy with the P & I Committee by the Chamber
B committee established to monitor the political appointments in government and parastatals, by lights and if
necessary to formulate recommendations. (F)

Local and provincial governments
The local governments enjoy as citizens nearby government a relatively high confidence of citizens. But many local
driving today's struggling financially, so the service is under pressure. Green advocates
thorough reform of the administrative landscape in Flanders, which reduces the administrative clutter, a
87

strengthening the financial base of cities and municipalities that are struggling and strengthening the
local democracy.

THOROUGH ADMINISTRATIVE APPROACH CLUTTERING FLANDERS
12. There are a lot of intermediary structures in Flanders operates alongside the elected levels of provincial and
municipality. In order to address these administrative cluttering, Green argues for a replacement
provinces by elected municipal and regional administrations (in total fifteen across Flanders). This must
accompanied by a considerable saving in the number of intermediate structures. Through a major reform of
the intermediate level of government (replacing provinces, municipalities and other intermediate structures
by urban and regional districts) can be a more efficient and transparent policy be shaped and can simultaneously
save costs and staff. However, the main benefit of this reform is more
democracy. (V)

Municipal finance
The municipal finances are under pressure in recent years: the impact of the economic crisis, the aging population,
pension issues, population growth, the cost of police and fire service reform, declining dividends
from intermunicipal ... This is likely to lead to severe cuts in services to citizens and in
municipal
investment.
13. The Flemish government must remain sufficiently resourced in the Municipalities. Green also wants the
solidarity mechanisms in the Municipalities reinforce the benefit of the least financially
affluent cities and municipalities. Therefore there is a need for reform, with attention to three important
pillars: fiscal sustainability, function center and the fee for the preservation of open space. (V)
14. The rising pension burden constitutes a serious financial challenge for cities and municipalities. Green supports
demand VVSG to the Flemish and federal government to support the municipalities in collecting
the pension bill. (V, F)
15. No passing on of costs by higher authorities to local authorities (cfr. Police reform
fire service reform, waiting benefits, unemployment limitation in time, ...). Green therefore request
consistent application of the Belfort principle at regional and federal level: testing effects
Decisions of the Flemish or federal authorities for local and provincial governments. We also ask that the
federal government living wage now pays 90% instead of 50%, 60% or 65%. The CPAS can
the funds released in this way, investing in a proactive poverty in which prevention and
are counseling center. (F, F)
16. Tax competition between governments to go. In recent years many municipalities often choose to
improper reasons for the creation of autonomous municipal companies or other forms of external
corporatization. Such structures can have an added value, but may not purely tax
have objectives. What government wins one, loses the other. It also costs a lot of money to
external consultants, and penalizes those municipalities that do not have the capacity to provide such structures in
put. Meanwhile, a number of loopholes were closed, but there remains a need for a coherent policy
around the tax for local governments. Green advocates the establishment of a permanent discussion forum on the
VAT between the federal government and local governments. Since VAT problems can be addressed and can
be sought for solutions together. (F)

STRENGTHENING THE LOCAL DEMOCRACY
The Flemish government must dare to go for more autonomy for municipalities, while the role of the municipal councils
strengthen.
17. Municipalities should be given real autonomy as in Scandinavia, the Netherlands etc. This means:. Wider
competences (eg. in terms of welfare, child care, housing, spatial planning, environment ...), many
less detailed and less developed Flemish priorities and no reporting requirements. This in
combined with an overall funding that is not bound by those rules. In addition, it should be
deployed on the permanent dialogue with citizens, respecting advisory and conduct a transparent policy.
(V)
18. Advocating for strong communities, also means thinking about scale. Green wants the debate on mergers
reopen municipalities. Some municipalities are currently too small to properly respond to the citizen
88

expect from a modern town. By encouraging mergers stronger we can come to municipalities
more administrative powers, which committed both strong on democracy. The choice for the replacement of provinces by
urban and regional districts means we do not opt ​​for mega churches, but for strong communities
which can cooperate in such regional and municipal region on balanced basis. We suggest that
Municipalities have at least 15,000 inhabitants. Municipalities that do not reach the population today should
merge with a neighboring municipality. They can start mutual discussions to this end. We also want to
provide serious incentives for voluntary mergers of municipalities with more inhabitants. (V)
19. We want the Flemish government councils revalue. Only in this way can the members
expected to be sufficiently armed. That means a stronger substantive involvement, better
information, guarantees substantive discussion, exclusive assignment to the City Council debate
decisions on strategic issues (eg privatization via an autonomous municipal company can
in certain cases be useful, but major policy decisions belong to the council), a professional
support groups (especially in the central cities), more opportunities to work and politics
combine, more training opportunities, ...
In addition, the council could play an important role in participation initiatives in cities and
municipalities, figures as a bridge between the citizen and the mayor and aldermen. The
the people's representative role of the City Council today comes too little expression. (V)
20. More transparency in municipal finances. Many municipalities work with privatized
agencies, autonomous municipal companies, or push tasks to inter-municipal. As a result, will
it is sometimes difficult to get an overview of municipal finances, because a lot of the issues are not
only very indirectly reflected in the municipal budget. There is need for more transparency.
A further application of the new management and policy opportunities here: because the data more
uniform be processed and presented, it should be possible to a real consolidated
municipal budget to come, at least for all the autonomous bodies of the church itself, which
For example, the overall indebtedness of the congregation to read, or at least a clearer view
the impact on municipal finances participations in eg. intermunicipal. (V)
21. Green wants a thorough evaluation of the new management and policy (BBC), in collaboration with the
local governments. The Flemish government must complete this evaluation at the latest in 2016, so they conclusions
timely into practice. Important considerations in this assessment are transparency (now often
limited by lack of detail information) and participation. Reducing planning burden is a good thing (and
could at some points even be able to continue), but at the same time involvement and participation may result
not become eroded. In the past there were significant participation conditions attached to the sectoral
policies such as youth work policy. The new BBC provides theoretical opportunities for enhanced,
more integral participation, but in practice in many municipalities fall away just participation. (V)
22. Stronger cooperation between the municipality and CPAs is a good thing, as the conduct of an integrated
social policy. Full integration (absorption) of the CPAS in the municipality would not be that. Therefore continues
Green in favor of maintaining a separate CPAS, managed by a Social Welfare Council. (V)

89

GOOD CARE WITHOUT
QUEUE
WELFARE
VISION
There's waited long enough. Waiting lists in welfare were the last 10 years
only longer. 22 000 persons with disabilities waiting for the right care, 4500
youth waiting for help or a place in a service, about 500 children are waiting for
foster care. There are an estimated 100,000 registrations on the waiting lists for nursing homes.
Half of the elderly should be between six months and one year waiting for a recording; a
five even wait longer than a year. Flanders lags behind its self-imposed
tentative data plan: there are still 20,000 seats deficit. This is
unacceptable and a rich region like Flanders or Brussels unworthy.

Flanders of the current Flemish Government wants everyone active in the labor market
2020 to make an economically superior region. But whoever does not forget the
beautiful plate of "Flanders in Action" past: the parents of children with disabilities, the
youngster growing up in a difficult family situation, the 55-fifties who takes care of elderly
parents and grandchildren. The only answer the Flemish Government these people empowering
is a waiting list for care. Along with the demand for full-time and certainly longer
keep working. A question that still sounds very cynical.

Green goes for a care guarantee for everyone who needs care. In our
health care we take it for granted that people have to wait for months
at roughly a hip replacement. What can health care, must also for the other
care can. Therefore the stakes of the upcoming elections is not whether we more
resources to invest in order to eliminate the waiting lists, but whether we are prepared
to build a fully fledged health insurance which - like the federal
Health Insurance - care guarantees to those who need it.

The Flemish Government is talking about the socialization of care. That
means that the dense environment absorbs more responsibility for the care of a
family member or friend. This may be a valuable principle. Especially because the care is so
place in a familiar environment: still the first choice of many people. But
it is contrary to the philosophy of traditional parties that anyone, anywhere
want full-time in a paid job. Who absorbs care must get not only time but also
itself can stand behind that choice. It should not be a forced choice because a
professional solution is not available. Otherwise, socialization of care
synonymous with "pull your plan." In order to avoid that the care guarantee is so important. Which
guarantees that a solution exists if the carrying capacity of the carers are
reaches limits. Therefore, also according to Green Determined action is needed to
supporting carers and volunteers.

In the welfare of the future is the question of the person seeking help, not on
Services. The requesting help, the directors of their own support or care.
Moreover, there is more tailored care. Such customization can we realize only
90

by a local, community-based approach. Not from a central, rigid, siled tower so.
Because customized care and care require speed and proximity. This means that the higher
governments recognize the role of local authorities in this.

The need for adapted housing grows: not only for the elderly, but also for persons with
disabilities, psychiatric problems, or other support needs.
However, there is a huge gap between the quality of life of the small group in a
subsidized housing type can go and the growing group on the
waiting list arrives. More resources are needed for adequate housing in their own neighborhood
realize, but according to Green must above all those resources differently and more
creativity is required. We therefore advocate a flexible approach to regulation
Interior facilities, fewer rules and more support for new forms of housing and
small-scale initiatives.

Like the rest of society, will make the welfare sector with a huge growth
in diversity. For example, in Brussels for more than a third of the senior citizens has a background
in the migration, but the super-diversity is also true in other cities. Measures taken by the
welfare support to these diverse cultural backgrounds to
will not be a luxury. Moreover, the exploding need to ask staff
this sector to have a solid answer.

The sixth state reform Flanders and Brussels have a number of important
powers, including in the area of ​​elder care. For Green, this constitutes
excellent opportunity to implement a new policy based on these principles. The wellbeing
People can not be put in boxes. The policy responses can not
stop at the borders of an authority or a health domain. Green therefore asks
better collaboration and unified vision as a response to a number of complex
problems: the homeless, the rapidly growing group of people in debt, and the
victims and perpetrators of violence within families.

Our proposals on health care and mental health we refer
to the Health Chapter, proposals around to the Child
Chapter Family Policy and more proposals on the poverty link
we got to the chapter on Poverty.

PROPOSALS
DEVELOPMENT OF CARE WARRANTY
CARE PLAN TO SUPPORT AND VOLUNTEERING
1.

Each person with an urgent care need to be able to rely on quality care. The ideal care will usually
a combination of support from the local network and professional help. It is therefore important to
carers to better support at each stage of their career. We evaluate based on existing
scales the extent of the health needs of the patient. If there is a serious need for care can
caretaker at his own request enable a carer. All caregivers, including those who did not advance in the
were working circuit be assigned the care status. This statute guarantees the construction of social
Rights for whom performed everyday care, unemployment, retirement, disability, health concerns. Per helped
person can be recognized more than one caregiver (part-time) and the statute is also possible after relocation
to a retirement home. (F)
2. Who combines care with a job, gets right to care with corresponding allowances. The existing
fixed set of time rights to care evolves step by step in the direction of an insurance logic.
91

3.

4.
5.
6.

7.
8.

9.

Within that logic, we give care according to the (proven) emergency presents itself. Those who want or need
caregiving, more time rights. This can be provided that an audit of the care time needed by a paramedical
team. The right to leave through death, we extend to one week. (F)
Caregivers get a care premium (V, B). For caregivers who take care and thus
have a family income below the poverty line, the health insurance premium adjusts the difference between the poverty line in.
(V, B) When caregivers in unemployment or a living wage with the activation process is temporarily suspended. (F)
We provide more psychosocial support for carers, particularly for those with
takes care of dementia. (V, B)
We raise to limited tax ceiling for the reimbursement of expenses for volunteers in the care sector. (F)
We expand respite care, both voluntary and professional. Respite care facilities which are
carers occasionally can leave the care to someone else. We turn babysitter volunteers and
give their coordination in the hands of the local service center (LDC). The Flemish and Brussels
government subsidize this form of care. (V, B)
The government encourages cooperation between voluntary and professional care organizations. (V, B)
Social innovation in support of carers receive opportunities. The Flemish or Brussels authorities can
Time banks and make coins possible at the local level through project funding or technical support.
(V, B)
We encourage technological innovation in support of carers to (think eg. To the success of
the persons alarms). (E, F)

FOR A FULL HEALTH INSURANCE
10. The health insurance ensures that everyone saves more than 25 years later and this by the income
to pay appropriate contribution to the care insurance scheme. If you organize the solidarity within the family but within
the whole of society and the strongest shoulders bear the heaviest burden. Green wants the contributions to the
health insurance related income be so strong shoulders carry heavier loads. (V), we have
in favor of a health insurance policy in Brussels, in a formula for cooperation between the Flemish and
French Community. (B)

STRENGTHENING FAMILY AND HOME CARE
11. Green wants to invest in a flexible, professional home care that is complementary to the caregivers. A
better regional distribution of home care is needed to avoid waiting lists. The level of
subsidies for home care and residential care will be unified. (V, B)
12. The legal framework for home care provides the necessary flexibility to the hours of care provided to, they
with sufficient recovery or redress for the workers concerned. (V, B)
13. Home care and other non-medical care should be affordable for everyone. Green advocates a regulation
which is the price of care tailored to the capacity of the family and for a maximum invoice for
home care. The latter means that expire own contributions as soon as a family a certain limit
has paid to private contributions. (V, B)
14. Home nursing and home care we vote optimum levels with a view to integrated care. (F, V, B)

LOCAL APPROACH BY MAP OF VILLAGE
15. Green resolutely advocates a neighborhood or town and not tied to a compartmentalized approach. This concerns
facilities within a district, borough or municipality. This means that the Flemish Government, the local
governments acknowledge their role, and that these authorities have some control over the organization of care. This requires a
adaptation of the new Home Care Act. In that decree have regional service centers and
departments of social work of the sickness now a key role in the organization of care. But
Some insurance funds are better developed than others. Therefore Green opposition against the new compartmentalization
and remains committed to a district-based approach to housing and to guarantee care to all dependents.
(V)
16. In the ward or village-based approach we provide in every area or (sub) municipality custom homes for
seniors, persons with disabilities or other support needs. We want the local service
strengthening and expanding the beating heart of an inclusive approach. From the classroom
service center, we support people in the activities of daily living through a 24 hours on 24 ADL92

assistance post. An ADL assistant helps people with activities of daily living such as getting out of bed
come, go to the toilet ... So can people who need more care to remain in their neighborhood. The
local service is also the turn write to the organization of care in the neighborhood. The Flemish and
Brussels government reorients the resources and supports local authorities in the development of district-bound
service centers. (V, B)
17. Good examples such as the first residential care district in Wervik, which was achieved through a project grant
be structurally embedded in the policy. (V, B)
18. We are in the Home Care Act recognizing residential care networks depends on collaboration
all services and amenities within one district, borough or municipality. This is in the recently
approved Home Care Act is not the case. Therefore work in some regions two or three
residential care networks alongside (or against) each other. In other regions there would be no residential care networks.
(V)
19. The siting and redevelopment of neighborhoods is living proof (re) building, and the meegroeiwonen
principles of social ecoquarters the norm. So we avoid severe adjustment costs on the property and is
not only the house itself, but also the environment adapted to the needs of each local resident. (V, B)

MORE CREATIVITY AND LESS niceties FOR NEW RESIDENTIAL FORMS
20. Green wants more resources to achieve adequate housing in their own neighborhood, but above all they must
and other resources are deployed with more creativity. This can be done by focusing on new forms of
live, for both owners and residents for residents tenants. The barriers that new species
discourage custom and collective housing forms be eliminated systematically. The Flemish and
Brussels government encourages this end provide a structural framework for collective and new forms of housing.
Green calls for the funding of collective housing forms, and for simplification of legislation
such initiators as large buildings are often colored in residential zone, banning
municipal regulations no longer dividing larger houses, and should the municipality
give separate addresses for people who share homes. Is to ensure that people on benefits
life benefit for lone no longer lose in such initiatives and not renovation grants
apply only to houses. (V, B)
21. To enable these new forms of housing, we are reorienting the current funding streams
build custom services from Flanders and Brussels and are assigned in the future
by local authorities. The conditions imposed by the Flemish and Brussels governments for
build are less strict and no longer written only tailored to new construction. Cause for this is still
little space and it is above all a very expensive option. (V, B)

A DIFFERENT VISION OF REGULATORY AND ORGANIZATION IN THE FACILITIES
22. A modern health policy requires a radical change in culture of the Flemish and Brussels and the Flemish policy
and Brussels administration. Which must evaluate an approach based on distrust, uniformity and
control drift towards an approach based on trust, differentiation and facilitating role. Control
abuse can no longer be based on rules and administrative procedures but at first
authority based on quality thinking and self-control. (V, B)
23. In the welfare sector, in addition to the non-profit actors increasingly other actors active. In this evolution, the
crucial that each provider stands the test of corporate social responsibility. Green will therefore
that each facility meets the criteria set by the Strategic Advisory Council of Welfare, Health and Family
put it: it must be high quality, socially equitable, efficient, relevant and accessible
care. This should ensure that the most vulnerable people continue to take on board and that continuity
is guaranteed. The legal form of the provision is for Green therefore of secondary importance to the strict
constraints imposed by the government. The government sees a transparent and modern way to the
quality of care offered. For Green, the government continues to play a role as initiator of the
care. This is important to ensure continued affordability for the most vulnerable groups. All of this
also calls for a more local, community-based approach with more freedom and responsibility to local
Authorities, a reassessment of the role of CPAs and good cooperation with private partners. (V, B)
24. In the health sector is also room for cooperative societies with a social purpose (see also
Chapter Economy). Such a dynamic organization able to respond easily to care demands. This

93

corporations must satisfy the above conditions. There will also be a restriction on or prohibition
on dividends paid to not lose focus on the service. (V, B)
25. Green wants to involve the users of facilities or services more in the organization so that they help shape
may indicate the quality. (V, B)
CARE PROFESSIONAL ATTRACTIVE AND PREPARING FOR COLOR AND MORE
DIVERSITY
26. Green wants to invest in the skills and careers of social workers. Through continuing education
and an expansion of the number of hours of additional training we give social workers the tools to reply
to give the increasingly complex care needs. (V, B)
27. Green wants to revalue social care work. That can not only through government campaigns to promote
of the profession, but also through better working conditions. In the budgetary programming, account
taken close of the next Flemish Intersectoral Agreement for the social profit sector. (V, B)
28. More people need easier in the healthcare sector can work. Green wants the caring professions
more accessible and more attractive for transfer students. In that context, we call for a clear framework
for the recognition of prior learning. Including low-skilled have their place within the
sector, and get a customized training. (V, B)
29. Bets works on care. Green argues for jobs in the social sector and the social Maribel remains before a
important tool. With the social Maribel makes every euro tax cut in caring for new
jobs and for better care. The tax cut is converted to 100% in additional jobs, the
maximum net proceeds of jobs. (F)
30. The Agency Integration and Citizenship given the task of knowledge on interculturalisation in care
strengthen. Business people who want to trade with foreign countries in continents can go to training
or have manuals available on cultural differences. Thus, it is also possible to concrete
actions to make up for welfare. It organizes refresher courses and also works together with
the training to welfare worker. (V, B)
31. There is a need for more attention to intercultural care. Green wants to prepare the staff in the welfare sector
more color and diversity. Based on diversity organizations to take concrete action
in this area. We encourage training for staff on how to deal with diversity in the audience.
That may be about differences in culture, language, religious beliefs, eating habits,
leisure and so on. (V, B)
Residential care for ELDERLY
Green wants older people as long as possible in their own familiar neighborhood let live. By investing in these
neighborhood and in the network of people move to a nursing home can often be postponed. For this are not
only new, corporate and small-scale residential important (see above), but this also requires a
rethinking of the classic nursing facilities. We guarantee the accessibility and affordability of the
adapted housing and care for every older.
Woonzorgcentra (FORMER NURSING HOMES)
32. The regulations on safety and quality in residential care centers is vast and complex. Therefore, it is
essential to permanently keep these rules critically daylight. There will be a thorough
analysis of all the rules imposed on residential care from the perspective of quality of life
the elderly. There will be more room for initiative and responsibility of the residential care facilities
how quality of life for their residents fill daily. (V, B)
33. Increasing the professionalism guarantees the quality. The financing and staffing
the residential care center will be adapted to the evolution towards ever-greater need of care
residents. Thus degrading savings on the number of used diapers or malnutrition
residents because too few personnel to help avoid when eating. (V, B)
34. There is a need for smaller and more salvaged facilities than the current large-scale residential care. In
Britain there are now hundreds of so-called Abbeyfield homes, together home initiatives
elderly. In Brussels there are now some of these initiatives. Green will this expand and strengthen. (V, B)
94 35. The current legislation and regulations have been prepared from the perspective of the current residential care centers. The
acute lack ensures that only the most dependent elderly people are included which
regulations and standards mainly constrict in this direction. In the Green concept is in addition to care
clearly to be an emphasis on living together. Legislation and regulations should therefore in that sense
to be adjusted. (V, B)
36. Green also calls for a clear policy on palliative care and clearly predetermined and the
occupant communicated procedures for euthanasia. (V, B)
37. Work is carried out by participation and involvement of the residents and their representatives in the
care facilities. (V, B)
AFFORDABLE AND ACCESSIBLE CARE FOR EVERY OLDER
38. The intensity of care makes the stay in the nursing home priceless for a lot of people. A
month bill of 1500 euro surpasses many pensions. We procure the maintenance obligation for
dependent elderly people off. Children's maintenance obligation for their dependents, elderly parents
today makes for great injustices. One CPAS progresses aid back, not the other.
Moreover, this often causes severe tensions within families. Many elderly people feel uncomfortable
'dependents' to be covered by their children. Green wants the abolition of the maintenance obligation
dependent elderly people unless people themselves have been in a situation of inability by
gifts to their children. Along with the strengthening of the health insurance and care provision is
Ensuring a quality and affordable care a government job. (F)
39. Green will make the nursing home bill payable by a higher contribution from the health insurance. Now
every nursing home resident receives a premium of 130 euros per month. This premium does not even cover 10% of the bill.
This premium must be raised so that it is sufficiently large to pay part of the nursing home bill.
(V)
40. In the context of the sixth state reform, the resources of the Allowance for Assistance to
Aged (APA), this is an additional charge for heavy dependents aged over 65 with a low
income. In Flanders we integrate these resources in the Flemish Care Insurance (V) and enter the Brussels
Common Community this task (B). There will be a simple, transparent and
universal indicator instrument inschaalt the need for care for people. (V, B)
41. In the context of the sixth state reform also be the federal remained mobility aids
transferred. Green wants a one-stop shop for every person who needs a mobility aid, including
Brussels. The transfer provides the opportunity for the development of an age-independent policy tools. On
Currently, a person whose disability after age 65 only comes not use yet
the same tools as a person whose handicap has previously emerged.
SUPPORT AND CARE FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES
In 2004 there were 8000 persons with disabilities on the waiting list. Today, 10 years later, the waiting list has
record number of 25,000 persons with disabilities who are waiting for the care to which they are entitled. Green wants this
tackle waiting lists, but for the recent decree forms Person Next Funding from the Flemish
Government no proper basis. We will not reduce waiting lists by reducing the rights or consolation prizes
share, Green wants to reduce waiting lists by guaranteeing support tailored to each person with a disability.
Also in this sector is therefore green behind the principles of a local, neighborhood-oriented approach, tailored care and the
encouraging creative and new collective forms of housing for persons with disabilities (see above).
Our country endorsed in 2009 the UN Convention which guarantees care and support to all persons with disabilities.
In the rich region of Flanders, people may with disabilities and their families are not left to their fate.
Either we endure the harrowing stories that will only become more numerous. Either we endorse the law
care and support and contribute together in solidarity to the cost of that care and support.
The philosophy of the UN Convention also risks being buried in the new decree of the
Person Next Finance (PVF). This decree makes specific disability support no longer accessible
all persons with disabilities. As vanish people from the waiting list without the guarantee that they really helped
be. The Basic Support Budget (PDO) that they receive is not linked to an individual support plan
and stands or falls with the budgetary constraints that will be there. Persons with disabilities by the Decree
less than ever involved in the design of their own care plan. Green on the other hand requires assurances that the person
95 with a disability really is the director of his or her own care. That is why we oppose tooth and nail
against the decree person next funding and we have developed its own alternative 'Perspective now':
A SUPPORT PLAN TO MEASURE AND PERMANENT CONSULTATION
A support plan tailored and directed by the disabled person decides what the family,
informal, regular care and disability specific care may help. The purpose of this care and support
itself can make choices as much as possible to participate in the 'normal' life: independent living, working or
daily activities, meaningful leisure activities ... If it emerges that the network around the person with a disability
insufficiently strong, then this network can be increased (for example, with a number of hours of personal assistance) or
supplemented with professional care and support from the formal sectors (eg ADL support).
If needed, there is also handicap-specific support (day care, ...) included in the support plan.
(V, B)
42. Of course, this also means that the support plan is a dynamic plan. Under the influence of changes
(life) circumstances may change the person with a disability it at any time. This way of
work is the only way to effectively ensure a care guarantee. (V, B)
Counseling and CUSTOM MADE BY LOCAL EMBEDDING
43. Socialization of care can really be an alternative if we start from a neighborhood and community-based approach. Green argues for the creation of a Support Service Plan (DOP) in each
care region. These services have an overview of all available help and support in their regions. There is
particular attention to the accessibility of the service, because certainly in a metropolitan context as
that has a lot of life Brussels 'hidden' people with disabilities who never report their need for care or
register. (V, B)
44. Any person with a disability who turned to the Support Service Plan (DOP) turns, gets a
assigned counselor who guides him in preparing and implementing its support plan. The
counselor acts as a counselor for the disabled person. The counselor
assesses the feasibility and immediate availability of professional support and negotiates
if desired, with the provision to purchase care. (V, B)
45. Since the support plan is by definition a multidisciplinary plan, it is difficult to assess
one administration concerned such as the Flemish Agency for Persons with Disabilities. The alternative
that we propose has already proven its efficiency in Flemish welfare: regional
Evaluation Committee, composed of five experts and five representatives of users. This
people come from the region and are from different experience in the organization of care and support
disciplines (home care, local service, and participate in disability care, support to live with ...). The
Regional Evaluation Committee has three main tasks: evaluation of the support plan
meets the provisions of the UN Convention, the plan keys on its social acceptability
and identifying gaps in care and support to the region to the relevant authorities. (V, B)
46. ​​Work will be a unique level of care / care needs classification used for all services:
grading of the personal budget, for the integration benefit, the income replacement
concession, the award for tools, tax benefits, ... (F, V, B)
CARE GUARANTEED BY THE PERSON RESPONSIBLE BUDGET
Green wants the execution of the previous decree on the personal budget (PGB) voted by the Flemish
Parliament in 2003 instead of a faint decoction. The results of the experiment with this Person-
Budget were positive. With this personal budget (PGB), a person with a handicap
support plan realized by buying in care in a facility with a regular service or a personal
assistant to recruit. (V, B)
47. Green wants a budget that is the translation of the cost of the approved support plan. Both
the cost of the components of care and support that are directly accessible help
delivered (for example, the cost of one hour home care, the use of the service-ADL from the LDC, the cost to a
house to match), as the cost for the parts disability specific care (day care center, hour personal
assistance ...) are cleared. (V, B)
96 48. The Flemish Agency for Persons with Disabilities, according to Green instructed to financial
translation to support the plan approved by the regional evaluation commission and not
to select who can and who is not entitled to participate in disability support. (V, B)
49. The personal budget, the person with a disability buy both care facilities
recognized by the Flemish Agency for Persons with Disabilities, as care and support in the
informal or regular (not disability-specific) services. It is an amount of cash and no voucher
every person with a disability to provide sufficient negotiating power against the institutions. (V, B)
Reinvesting THE HISTORIC CAPITAL OF THE DISABILITY SPECIFIC
SERVICES
It is clear that disability-specific approach is needed to the person's network with disabilities
support or to take care in part or all over. Also organizing a day care for
persons with disabilities who can not go to the usual social or labor market is crucial in a
inclusive approach. This handicap specific care should however not hidden behind an almost impregnable
gateway. The facilities for people with disabilities are important knowledge, they are home or
Buurtzorg at, in the implementation of support plans. The day center can thus together with the local service
develop initiatives to organize meaningful activities for people with disabilities. We ensure that the
Current facilities can fulfill this role by allowing them to work within a flexible approach to regulation in the
Facilities (as currently in FAM - Flexible Approach adults). (V, B)
RIGHT TO YOUTH CARE
They are less prominent in the media but the waiting lists in youth are equally long and possibly even
more poignant than the waiting lists in care for persons with disabilities. A child who help and support
indeed necessary in coming months has the necessary assistance and support has huge implications for the opportunities
this child.
For Green, it is important that there are fewer children entering the child welfare by responding quicker to the ball.
For that can turn the young person in his neighborhood have questions and the help that is needed. And should the walls
between the different sectors will be demolished. According to Green reflects the recently approved decree integral
youth lack the original philosophy of the integrated youth care. Intersectoral work after twelve years
fill equated with identical forms, follow the same procedures and the same incomprehensible 'Integra Read'
talk. The younger is anything but central, but is reduced to a few boxes on a preprinted form.
And even the worst: the counselor, the companion of the younger is simply deleted. Short-sighted
saving drift, so to speak.
Green says no to a youth without soul and wants to rewrite the decree of the gate. This guarantees
that every child with a youth whether youth need, every parent with a question or youth
youth need that has related with the education or development of the minor, right
on youth.
Green also calls for strengthening and improving the attractiveness of foster care. This is not only better for
the child, but is also cheaper than a placement in an institution.
With the implementation of the sixth state reform juvenile justice will also be transferred. Flanders will also
be responsible for the forced youth and juvenile criminal law. Young people can commit crimes and the
Society must be protected against it. However, the starting point for the Green always wants to younger one
to give new opportunity for him through education, training, counseling after the measure to re-record in the
society. The current law on child protection adjudicated youth from 16 under ordinary criminal law. The
children UN committee has already settled Belgium reprimanded for this approach that youth have
always gives not only rights and duties. The transfer represents a unique opportunity to become a full Flemish
juvenile criminal law to develop, work to create a legal guarantee model and continue to be deployed on the model of
restorative.
A counselor LAID IN A LOCAL SERVICE
50. In each care area we focus a Support Service Plan (DOP) on. These services have an overview of
The available modules directly accessible youth support and assistance in other sectors. They seek permanent
the best techniques to do to demand clarification. They spend at the request of the Centers for
97 Educational Guidance (CLB), the General Welfare (AWW) or the Trust Centers and Child and Family
the network of minor and draw up a proposal of support plan. (V, B)
51. We reject any support plan to a counselor for the younger ones. The counselor ensures
that the support plan is executed. He can also take the initiative to organize outside help
sectors of the integrated youth: for example activate debt, psychosocial counseling for
the parent (s) via the general welfare ... (F, B)
52. The counselor may also decide to preventive social action (PSA). If there is more
specialized assistance -the so-called help behind the toegangspoort- needed to support the plan out
run, it will be requested by who got the first question: CLB, AWW, Child and Family or the
Trust Centres. If there are questions the younger, his network and the counselor must be heard
by these organizations. (V, B)
53. When the trust between the counselor and the younger looking, the service may decide another
counselor to assign. To give assistance in the maximum opportunities should
support plan also 'modules' can be activated outside the youth. (V, B)
VULNERABLE CHILDREN, YOUNG PARENTS AND STRENGTHEN
54. Professional counseling is essential in child welfare. Working with volunteers or
counselors as proposed in the present decree, by no means sufficient. For underprivileged
families it is indeed not easy to find a counselor who stands up for the implementation of
their right to care. Moreover, experience shows that volunteers can often insufficient weight
laying. The counselor should be able to speak with authority the reserves and on demand
minor or its network of approved modifications can propose negotiation plans. (V, B)
55. Children, young people and parents in care are particularly vulnerable. Therefore we propose to Dutch
model an advice and complaints office youth to focus on. It is false to think that there is no today
prevent abuses. All adults and young people who are dealing with child welfare, can a
rely on this desk. Every worker in the youth shows the young people and their parents to the existence
thereof. The mission of advice and complaints office youth is assigned by the Flemish Government
an organization that is not involved in any of the sectors of youth. The Opinion and
Complaints Youth Care Agency works with counselors. They visit youth facilities and give
telephone information to young people and parents. (V, B)
56. Minor asylum seekers or minors without a residence permit by the band extremely vulnerable and require
special protection, especially on education and health. (V, B, F)
Foster Care FOSTER
To tackle the waiting lists in foster care, foster care is made more attractive. New foster families
attracting means investing in foster care:
The federal government is urgently a full status for foster parents. These controls include the
legal position in relation to the parents of the foster children. (F)
The expense allowance that foster parents receive is no longer considered as income under
alimony arrangements on divorce or debt. (F)
Foster citizenship should have no impact on replacement incomes who receive foster parents. (F)
We appreciate foster parents in their care responsibilities, through the opening up of existing care leave, parental leave and
time funding for foster parents. (F)
There will be an enhanced educational and social framework of the foster parents that kids today
often catch very complex problems. (V, B)
FLEMISH YOUTH TO A PENALTY
57. A young person is responsible for his actions, but also has a right to a proper legal settlement. The
measures associated with unacceptable behavior must be clearly defined as in criminal law
for adults. So we develop a full-fledged juvenile criminal law specific measures
provides for minors who commit a crime. Thus, the juvenile court can not choose unlimited from a row
measures, and for example, a bicycle theft in the one case to give a warning in another case, a
work measure imposing 40 hours. (V, B)
58. Central to the restoration of the victim, we therefore focusing further on restorative. A
neutral third party assists the communication process in which the perpetrator, the victim and his parents active
participate in the consultations. They are searching for some form of recovery of the material, moral and psychological damage
that is acceptable to all parties. (V, B)
98 59. More generally restorative means of correcting the error to society. Therefore it is
important that the restorative justice on a wide range includes measures adapted to his
age of the offender and the seriousness of the crime. The possibilities are reprimanded, rehabilitation, training,
community service, fines and closed shelter. There are also new features such as' suspension
judgment 'and' probation. For eligibility, the younger certain conditions
satisfy, for example participating in restorative or follow a learning project. (V, B)
60. Such a design is called a legal guarantee model. The younger is not a direct object of
well-intended measures, but has its recovery into their own hands when the measure which the juvenile court
pronounce on the basis of age and offense performs well. (V, B)
BEING THE FIRST LINE: AN ANSWER TO EVERY request for help
ACCESSIBLE HEALTH PROPERTIES ON THE FIRST LINE
Anyone with a problem or question is to aid should be able to find a smooth way in the
first strike. It fulfill the general welfare centers (CAW's) together with the CPAS a
important role. They are based on local agreements about how they can be complementary rather than each other
competitor.
61. We will strengthen the local level instead of hollowing out by the Social Houses much more central
for making all local assistance and services. Social Houses and CAW's clear agreements
cooperation and complement each other instead of competing against each other. (V, B)
62. The general welfare centers are open to a diverse audience. To access to
increase we put additional resources into social interpreting and mobile care. (V, B)
TACKLING HOME AND HOMELESSNESS
63. The prevention of homelessness begins with a fair housing policy. Our proposals before
stand in the Housing Section. Green also wants to prevent homelessness through proper guidance and
timely intervention of CPAS CAW and programs to prevent the eviction of tenants. Also, at the outflow from
psychiatry, youth welfare and prisons comes extra guidance. Flanders and Brussels
negotiated agreements with CPAS incorporating a actorrol in the fight against homelessness (V, B) and
federal level has sufficient project subsidies for social integration of the homeless (F).
64. Residential oriented solutions are the most effective in the fight against homelessness. Green wants to expand
the budget for the 'Housing First'. Which provides housing for homeless and guidance as the best start
for a new life. (F)
65. Reception remains necessary. Green wants subsidizing day care centers reassessing to do away with
high daily rates and the wide variation in daily rates between care initiatives. Homeless people without papers
also gain access to the shelter. (V, B)
66. The claims in respect of vacant buildings no longer remains an empty shell. This law indicates
mayors the possibility of vacant housing units claiming to homeless people in under
to bring. Here we make an effective right of an easing of the procedure, closing the
loopholes and addressing the gaps in the law. (F)
67. The right to housing should be regarded as an enforceable human right. Therefore opposition Green himself
against criminalization of squatting in empty houses. (F)
Debt counseling and mediation
Debts can best be tackled preventively. Therefore we push forward measures under the Section
Poverty (benefits above the poverty line), the Chapter Housing (affordable live for tenants) and the
Chapter Consumer policy (protection against aggressive selling techniques). But even if all debts
made, is a quick and humane care is crucial:
68. The debt counseling and mediation services faced with waiting lists. There will be a basic supply of
social debt by CAW and CPAS. In exchange for their recognition they receive the necessary
financing. (V, B, F)
69. In all welfare sectors sensitized for targeted and rapid referral to debt problems. (V,
B)
99 70. We can change the article 1254 of the Civil Code so that the first payments on the principal and not
firstly be attributed to the interest in order to the spiral of indebtedness easier
break. There will also be an update of the list of non attachable property that takes into account
with the needs of the whole family. The living expenses of families with debt is sufficiently high for a
To ensure decent living. (F)
APPROACH TO FAMILY VIOLENCE
71. There will be a new national action plan to combat domestic violence through measures and actions
different policy levels. The plan is a need for a coherent vision of the whole. It is attention
for abuse of the elderly (be) action. When addressing forms of violence in which the cultural context involved
plays, migrant organizations are involved. (F, V, B)
72. The prevention of violence in relationships is through targeted interventions by aid workers. GPs,
teachers, employees of Child & Family, nurses, midwives, ... get a thorough
training to recognize signs of domestic violence and other forms of domestic violence and
follow-up to indicate. (V, B)
73. We provide structural funding "Hotlines Abuse, Violence and Child Abuse". The
Helpline 1712 24 can be reached at 24. (V, B)
74. Belgium ratifies the Istanbul Convention on the prevention of violence against women and domestic violence and
she performs. A doubling of the required number of shelters for women and children. There
also meets at least one house for men. We make shelters more accessible, we revised the
financing it so that whoever invokes a refuge only have to pay the accommodation costs and
is free child care for vulnerable groups. (F, V, B)
75. Offender Supervision is important to avoid the violence starts again (with a new partner).
This requires a structural expansion of offender therapy and systematic monitoring of offenders
violence. (V, B)
100 HEALTH CARE

VISION
An ecological health is investing in prevention, makes qualitative
health care for everyone, the patient puts centrally and let people at a
heal healthy way. We are living longer and there are more and better treatments
available. That is very positive. It is also accompanied by rising costs, but
our health may have a price. Of course not what cost anything. For Green
there can be provided a vision and another organization still be saved in health care.
This without touching the patient or compromising on quality, quite the contrary. But then a
shift of resources required: away from the over-consumption of high-tech
care and a better framework for prevention and basic care. This requires a revolution
at the highest level of our health, even in the current decision-making and
management bodies of the insurance.

Investing in prevention avoiding illness, but also saves on expenditure
health insurance. Prevention focuses on green much broader than just education or
individual behavior. This concerns in the first place, to change the way we find ourselves
Moving, living, attending school, work and interact. For example, means an
reduction of particulate matter less asthma and fewer need to aerosols in our children. The
work in a healthy way organize saves us stress, broken backs and years of
mandatory inactivity. Break the taboo around mental illness, helping people
faster to search and help prevent worse. A health policy is always an integral
policy and extends well beyond the portfolio of one minister for health.

Anyone can get sick and sickness makes people vulnerable, financially. It's not possible
that someone does not get the proper care of themselves to worry about the bill. That's why
requires a public and inclusive health insurance that covers sufficient health risks. The
health gap between rich and poor in Belgium is a stain on our escutcheon. The lowest
skilled live 18 years less in good health than the highly skilled. The
it is high time to eliminate this gap.

It is essential to self determination. Therefore it is important to the
patients' rights and to strengthen the participation of patients. In this way, we obtain
a health care tailored to the patient rather than tailored to the care facility.
The care starts from a holistic point of view and not just focus on the sick
organ, but also the man in his context, family and carers.

When people are sick they can heal in a healthy way. That includes the
unnecessary medicines, unnecessary technical performance and therapeutic
obstinacy not to. These are bad for our health and well-being, for the duration
wallet and priceless health insurance. Performance Medicine must place
make for an otherwise organized medicine, with a greater focus on fixed
fees, care pathways and a stronger role for the first line. Also, the price of
medicines and other assets can down, including through a system
public procurement. Heal in a healthy way also means plenty of time
get to heal. The increase in chronic diseases requires a less radical
split between illness and work and solutions that do not penalize the patient.

101

PROPOSALS
FIRST PREVENT THAN CURE: FOCUS ON PREVENTION
INTEGRAL HEALTH WITH VISION
83. The Belgian healthcare system lacks vision. The financing of the various sub-domains happens too much ad
hoc and on the basis of a fiscal logic. It is time for a global vision of our healthcare system,
developed on the basis of explicit health objectives, which we measure and evaluate. Decisions
to fit the budgets within the framework of the priorities set. This increases the stability and the
breeding ground for social entrepreneurship in the sector. (F, V, B)
84. the establishment of the inter-federal institute for the future of a coherent policy for
health care, as foreseen in the sixth state reform, important. This institute provides a
coordinated, submitted answers to the big, including budgetary, challenges related to the
future of health care and is the meeting point for inter-federal ministers responsible for
health. The federal government and the states conclude a cooperation agreement to this end. (F, V, B)

PREVENTION THROUGH HEALTHY ENVIRONMENT
85. Working towards a healthy environment is a prime shape Disease. The scientific
evidence that the environment has a growing impact on health, but the policy is lagging behind. Environmental Standards
We tune into the health risks for the most vulnerable groups in society, such as children,
the elderly and pregnant women. (E, F, V, B) The clean air standards to meet in order to start a minimum
the guidelines of the World Health Organisation. (E)
86. We come in daily life with more and more chemicals in touch. These are not always
innocent, and include even carcinogenic. We encourage further research into the impact of
chemicals and cocktails. (E, F, V, B) The current European regulatory framework for dealing with
Chemicals (REACH - Regulation on Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals)
we, we evaluate and adjust in order to improve the physico-chemical hygiene. (E) The Government
providing clear information and comprehensive guidelines to the impact of chemicals and endocrine disruptors
substances to limit include children, classrooms, day care centers and food packaging. (V, B) Green is
also concerned about the health effects of radiation and believes that the precautionary principle must be
applied.
87. For further measures, see also Chapter Healthy Living Environment.

PREVENTION THROUGH HEALTHY AND SAFE FOOD
88. Healthy food is cheaper. Unhealthy diet increases the risk of cardiovascular disease,
leading cause of death in Flanders. Healthy products are however not cheap, and not
obviously for people with lower incomes. Healthy and sustainable diet can contrast
become cheaper by applying a reduced VAT rate. According to the current European
regulatory VAT on a product because of environmental reasons can not be lowered. Green wants
changed so that seasonal and local fruits and vegetables and organic products at a reduced rate
VAT can enjoy. (E)
89. We further steps in the regulation of food and laying the producers to be less unhealthy
nutrients such as sugar, fat, food additives, ... to be used.
90. As a consumer, you know the store is not always at a glance how healthy or unhealthy food.
To increase consumer awareness about healthy and sustainable diet and a healthy choice
To make it easier, we introduce a traffic light system (processed) food in. In addition, there
on the package a clearly visible color code (green, orange, red), wherein the color is recorded
according to certain thresholds. (E, F)
91. Belgium anchors the International Code of marketing of breast milk substitutes
products legislation. This is about encouraging breastfeeding and damming of giving
free samples of formula. Belgium gets the target of the World Health Organization in this area
absolutely not. This is also one of the best preventive measures against obesity in children.
92. Green wants a more active role of the government in the area of ​​food safety. Food safety is first
foremost a matter of public health. That's why we put the Federal Agency for the
102

Food Safety (AFSCA) back under the tutelage of the Minister of Health and no longer under the
guardianship of the Minister of Agriculture. (F)
93. The Federal Food Agency (AFSCA) warns in a timely and transparent
allows the population to issues around food safety. The savings from the previous federal government
the budget of the AFSCA we turn back. (F)
94. Belgium scores poorly internationally due to the high use of antibiotics in animal husbandry. These antibiotics are
eventually onto our plates and cause problems of resistance. We implement to Dutch
model a plan to reduce antibiotics in livestock farming by at least half. Importantly, the
creating a central database in which the use of antibiotics by sector and company carefully
is maintained so that the greatest abuses are identified. Stricter regulations on administration
of antibiotics is required. (F)
95. Green resists the erosion of the European food safety standards in the context of a
free trade agreement with the United States. These standards ensure the protection of the European
consumers from imports of chlorinated chicken, hormone-treated beef steaks, and so on. (E). See also further
Chapter Agriculture and Food.

Health promotion and CAMPAIGNS
96. Green requires a doubling of the budget for health promotion. Which we finance more
structural initiatives rather than short-term projects. These structural initiatives we choose according to
ambitious health goals. Examples are the reduction of overweight, stimulate
sports and an active lifestyle, promotion of breastfeeding, promoting sexual and mental
health screening, or for the prevention of cancer. (V, B)
97. Targeted campaigns are still necessary, such as sexual health or the taboo of mental
disorders. Campaigns vote we better off in hard to reach target groups like underprivileged and
people with a migration background. (V, B)
98. Successful new methods and projects in prevention, we extend a structural basis. An example is the
Moving on Prescription. In addition, doctors do not prescribe medication, but movement. The patient with this
prescription for a fitness coach to help search for the right kind of movement and motivates them to the full
hold. Another example is the 'green ambulances' teams of experts in the fields of environment and
health, which in homes form of contamination, indoor measurements. The government can then
provide ecological renovation grants to remediate adverse effects in house (eg. asbestos). (V, B)

TOBACCO, ALCOHOL, DRUGS, ADDICTIONS
99. According to the World Health Organization, tobacco is the second leading cause of death worldwide. The
excise taxes on tobacco go up by 10%. Price increases are in fact the most effective deterrent
measures according to the World Bank. (F)
100. Through the recent European tobacco directive, the European Greens managed already to stricter warnings
to obtain the packaging and a ban on certain additives and flavors. We intend in the future
continue, including through a ban on all additives in cigarettes (because of their carcinogenic
properties) and a ban on flavors of e-cigarettes (because these young people turn to smoking). (E)
101. We are working on an alcohol plan that addresses the risky use of alcohol. It makes little sense
prohibit youths 'everything' for them then as "adults" plots themselves to make choices. Everyone has to
in a balanced way to learn to deal with alcohol. This requires clear information and guidance on the
dangers of alcohol necessary, as well as appropriate counseling for problematic use. Green advocates
Tight regulation of advertising of alcoholic products. (F, V, B)
102. There cannabis use is that information and interpretation of hazards are important. The user has
little insight into the quality of the product. Green is asking for a critical evaluation of
the results of the current cannabis policy. It makes no sense to go in the direction of
criminalization, marginalization and stigmatization of people who use cannabis without others
harm. (F)
103. An addiction policy is directed against addictions, but not against the abusers. Currently, there are

several ongoing projects (eg in the context of the Fund to Combat Addictions)
where innovative methods are being developed and tested, such as "CRA for
cocaine users "," crisis at home, "" offer for using pregnant women and parents with

103

young children "," online assistance ". Positively evaluated projects we want a more
structurally continue and expand to other regions. (V, B)

A STRONG AND ACCESSIBLE FIRST LINE
"Primary health care now more than ever." That is the answer of the World Health Organization
how a high-quality, cost-effective, integrated and patient-driven healthcare
obtain. A strong first line ensures that people seek help earlier, and unnecessarily expensive visits at
specialists or avoided in the emergency room. Green therefore wants primary care further
strengthen.
The multidisciplinary group practice, central to the first line
104. For an efficient first line is important that everyone chooses one general practitioner and a global
medical record medical data opens at this GP. In Flanders this is already well established. We
Making the Global Medical File (GMD) required so that in future, everyone of the benefits to enjoy.
The individual prevention (GMD +) for over-45s we encourage. We encourage the spindle and
distribution function of the GPs in the first line further, and recognize the GPs in their role as leaders
manager of the Global Medical Record (GMR). But at the same time we are working on more multidisciplinary
group practices (see below). (F)
105. The global medical record may have already been established, it is rarely shared between different
doctors. Where relevant to quality care, we therefore health and wellness information
the patient's file available for other care and help providers treating the patient. (F, V, B)
That helps to avoid duplication of studies or double medication. We are accelerating the development of the
electronic patient record (e-health federal, Vita Link Flemish), ensuring proper alignment of all
platforms so that the recording and exchange of data can be done easily. The electronic
data makes so many records for doctors, nurses and health insurance unnecessary.
(F, V, B) We organize a public debate around the question of which care provider gets access to which
data. (F, V, B)
106. More patients need to be unsuccessful in the fixed subscription or medicine. Since the patient writes
registered with an established practice or center and the need for consultations in the center no longer pay. The
center gets health insurance, a fixed amount per patient per year and no longer a sum per
performance. This financing has many advantages: it makes the first line accessible, also for disadvantaged groups,
it ensures that the physician has more benefit to focusing on prevention and cooperation, and there are fewer
unnecessary performance. (F)
107. The government actively supports the formation of low-threshold and multi-disciplinary health practices
on the first line. A very good example are the community health centers, but there are also other shapes. The
For example, support consists of a start-up budget for the centers, asking a disposal
project employee to start the network it helps build a financial incentive to register as
Doctors unite or interpreter support for patients who do not speak Dutch. (V, B)
108. The district health centers in a decree recognized as one of the practice are on the first line
paying attention to multidisciplinary collaboration, focused on the community, and may act as
a local actor for health promotion. (V)
109. In every city and rural areas will be a GP sentry where people outside normal hours
turn to. (V, B) Green wants a uniform paging system for this call service, with a central
telephone number. On the central call number is someone with specific training telephone triage:
what is life-threatening, emergency, urgent, routine or just advice? This has benefits for the patient, which
with any health question can be found at one place, but also for the doctors, who only accessed
be required for travel and for whom the guard duties are less heavy. This system
also relieves the pressure on the emergency services. We rely on the experience from the projects '1733'. Government
shall, in cooperation with GP organizations the necessary legal hedging, including by
validated protocols to provide. (F)

MORE COOPERATION AND THE FIRST LINE
110. We facilitate cooperation within the first line, where both general practitioners, pharmacists, physiotherapists,
dietitians, home care nurses, home care workers, caregivers, health services, an important ...
take place. Also, the co-operation between the first and the second line we make easier. We provide
financial incentives to appreciate better consultation. (F, V, B)
104

111.

We rearrange caring responsibilities for various care providers in care processes with a view to an integrated
care for the patient. (F, V, B), this will not only increase the quality of the care for the patient, but also the
appreciation for the various care providers (such as nurses, physiotherapists, dieticians ...) a
better definition of tasks and remuneration. Moreover, this leads to a more efficient utilization of resources and this can be
mean an intelligent saving.
112. The nursing home, hospital and home care more complementary. The financing of the
home nursing is to be revised. For chronic care in the nursing home is a weighted
designated funding envelope. (F) For more suggestions on homecare see chapter Welfare.
113. The midwife home care is shabbily treated in the nomenclature and structurally
underfinanced. However this, the health care provider of choice that does valuable prevention
(supervision during pregnancy and after childbirth). We review the financing (F) and encourage the efforts
midwives in the multidisciplinary group practices. (V, B)

THE PHARMACIST, SO MUCH MORE THAN A SELLER
At the pharmacy is everybody once inside. The pharmacy also has one of the lowest thresholds within our
health care. That is an asset and which will focus firmly Green. For elderly and chronically ill people and for
nursing home residents, in particular, it is important that one keeps the overview of the pill box. The pharmacist is
therefore the right person, in close consultation with GPs and other health providers. Green wants the role of the
pharmacist within reinforce even further the first line in the following manner:
114. In the pharmacy is not the drug central, but the patient. The pharmacist accompanies his clients,
follow their medication use and contact with the patient and / or family doctor if a change is needed.
For this, the patient, the pharmacist can give access to the shared pharmaceutically file, in which all the
information about the medication taken by the patient and the relevant medical data in a secure manner
be stored electronically. The aim is to increase the monitoring and safety of the therapy. We work
the IT applications within Vita Link and within e-health to support this accelerated (F, V, B).
115. We support the use of European standardized instruments for this pharmaceutical care
Register and improve its quality. This gives the opportunity to influence national and even European
to provide accessible health records. (E, F)
116. The fees for pharmacists we tune in to their new role in the first line:
• Already have pharmacists who asthmatics accompany extra money. The pharmacist then hold a conversation with
the patient at the start of new medication. Patients are better informed and take their medication
more correctly, so they recover faster. Expand this system of supervision interviews
we look forward to other drugs. (F)
• We reward pharmacists for medication evaluations. With such evaluation on running the pharmacist close
consultation with the doctor and the patient all medications taken by the patient. They evaluate together or cocktail
of medicine does is the best, or negative interactions may occur and whether the medication correctly
is used. (F)
• Green wants to release a budget for ongoing consultations on the first line around drug use.
In it, the doctor involved, the pharmacist, the nursing home, the home nurse, the physiotherapist, the
primary psychologist, and so on. There will also be consultation guidelines so that such dialogue can also be concluded
in places where this does not happen spontaneously. (V, B)
117. We promote alongside doctors both pharmacists and patients to report adverse reactions to medicines
to the competent authority, the Federal Agency for Medicines and Health Products (FAMHP).
This requires a more accessible web form required on the website of the FAMHP. (F)
118. The Federal Agency for Medicines and Health Products is playing an active role in the
Monitoring the quality of preparations make the pharmacists themselves (compounding). (F)

AFFORDABLE HEALTH CARE FOR EVERYONE
REDUCE HEALTH GAP
119. Narrowing the health gap, the large differences in health between socioeconomic
groups is a top priority for health. There are both federal, Flemish and Brussels
Health aims to significantly reduce the gap during the next legislative session. (F, V, B)

105

120. For people with low incomes is a doctor's visit is often a big bite out of their budgets. 14% of the
households in Belgium should delay medical care because they can not pay. Therefore Green Advocates
a generalization of the third-party payment in the first line to all patients. Everyone pays
you just have to advance the co-payment instead of the full amount. The third-party payment scheme is the
standard in neighboring countries and does not there to overconsumption. This scheme can also patients
less urgent care needs of the emergency services back to draw the first line. (F)
121. Maximum billing (MAF) is an important tool for health care for the chronically ill
keep it affordable. They limited the medical costs have families up to an annual ceiling amount. Not
However, all count towards this maximum invoice. Some chronically ill should example
vital nutritional supplements, vitamins, minerals, or analgesics that do not yet take in the
maximum bill are included. Green wants to further extend the maximum bill on this area for patients
with a chronic illness. The government also gives the patient more and clearer information about the
maximum bill and whether or not there is what is contained in. (F)
122. We are increasing health insurance benefits for persons with a chronic illness at least to the
poverty line. (F)
123. Every contribution or intervention that has a diseased right, such as the increased reimbursement grant
We automatically. Too few people make use of their rights. (F)
124. The government strengthened the legal framework for better protection of people with an illness or
Guests who wish to take out additional insurance. Persons with an illness or disability
often refused if they want to conclude an invalidity or disability insurance for new
risks. Especially for small businesses, this is problematic. At a hospital, there is already a
right to insurance. This we expand to the incapacity or disability insurance.
In addition there will be clarification about the concept of "pre-existing illness" in the sense that the insurer only
existing conditions who were already diagnosed can exclude. (F)
125. For immigrants and ethnic minority health status is often worse than that of the
general population. We strengthen the formation and recognition of culturally competent health professionals
ensuring the accessibility of health care for these groups. (F, V, B).
126. The Government shall ensure the proper application of the legislation on emergency medical assistance for persons
without legal residence. Access to medical care is a right and should not be made dependent on
certain conditions, such as the willingness to return the person concerned. (F)

AFFORDABLE AND TRANSPARENT HOSPITAL BILLING
Anyone who has ever ended up in the hospital knows. Many people shy away from the huge bills that often follows. That
is due to the escalating fee supplements that require some doctors and because the compulsory
long health insurance does not cover all medical care.
127. Recently, a partial ban on fee supplements approved in doubles, which we
cheer. Green wants to expand the ban on fee supplements in doubles to
daghospitalisaties. For singles Green wants a ceiling on the fee supplements of 100%.
But more fundamentally is a need for a new hospital funding enabling physicians these supplements
no longer need to ask. (F)
128. There will be an investigation into the practice of doctors refuse to treat patients if they choose to
multi-person and not for a single room, where necessary, by measures. (F)
129. A hospitalization seems today no luxury. The basis of the problem is that
compulsory health insurance covers too little medical care, for example in terms of new
medicines or treatments. Green will primarily wider coverage and therefore an extension
of the compulsory health insurance. This is the only way to guarantee solidarity. We strive
to make additional (hospitalization) insurance superfluous as much as possible. So we also avoid
problems with the expensive premiums when someone hospitalization of his former employer
plans to continue individually. (F)
130. A patient at a hospital hardly knows in advance that he or she stands financially. The current
initiatives to make more transparent the green bill will continue. The government encourages timely
and accessible patient information from the hospital about the financial aspect. Each patient must
advance get an estimate of the costs. In addition, the bill for a layman must be prepared to understand.
(F)

106

AFFORDABLE MEDICINES
131. A lock model with public procurement. Medicines no longer covered by patent we make
cheaper by choosing a generalized "lock model." A gate opens to a number of boats
entering, then the lock is closed for a time. We write an invitation to tender and
let pharmaceutical companies subscribe to a detailed specification of the guarantees for it
supply and price. The best providers winning the contract: they can take the proverbial lock
entering. They are for a period to be agreed assured that their product will be refunded. This
is a win-win situation for the patient, the pharmaceutical company, pharmacists and health insurance. The patient receives
guaranteed the best price. The company can perfectly plan the production of the drug, the pharmacists
can better plan their stock and get rid of the system where the price is evaluated monthly and the
health insurance savings. (F)
132. We further encourage the mandatory prescription of a minimum percentage inexpensive variants
drugs, whether generic or originals that have reduced their price to generic level.
This system will be extended to day hospitals. (F)
133. The price of some innovative drugs is very high. For example, the increased costs of
cancer drugs over the last 10 years by 348%. The additional costs for a number of targeted
cancer drugs that are still under development is estimated to be 2.5 to 5 billion euro. Also
medicines that help rare diseases seem to ask drug companies what they
want. Sometimes, these companies rely on the price of a drug, not the costs that they had
make for the development and production of it, but on what they think the society is up
would want to pay. Resulting skyrocketing costs for the patient and for the health insurance. Green
wants to get rid of such practices and therefore requires more transparency of prices from pharmaceutical companies. The
firms are required to provide more clarity on how the price is determined (for example costs
research, marketing expenses, costs for production, ...). On the basis of this information is public better
armed to assess whether the asking price that firms are permitted. If it turns out that the price is too high, the can
government intervention through price controls. (E, F)
134. Green pleads for more European cooperation and exchange of information and expertise between Member States
the pricing and reimbursement of medicines. In this way we strengthen the Member States
so that they in their negotiations with pharmaceutical companies to enforce a lower price. Certainly
In the case of orphan drugs, which are drugs for rare diseases is increased
cooperation is needed to join forces and experiences. (E, F)
135. The government uses innovative contract possibilities with pharmaceutical companies so that the
patients faster access to vital innovations. An example is the price-volume contracts, the price may drop in once a certain quantity is sold, or about results-oriented
contracts where the insurance pays if the treatment is successful and where in the case of
failure to pay the company. (F)

FIGHTING AGAINST DEFECTS ON CONSUMPTION AND QUALITY
HALT ON UNNECESSARY MEDICINES
Green wants to heal people in a healthy way. This means that the most effective drug for a
condition available and affordable for everyone. But it also means that people no unnecessary chemical
debris or swallow too much antibiotics. The pharmaceutical industry is a major employer in our country, but it does
not at the expense of the health and the wallet of the Belgian. The over-consumption of medicines
prevention is a priority for Green.
136. The European Union collects international evidence and cooperates with other international bodies
targets in connection with the over-consumption of medication. Member States shall exchange experiences and
learn from each other how they keep their medication use within limits. (E)
137. The European Union increases the reliability of drug studies. It requires pharmaceutical
companies to disclose the results of all clinical trials. Only now, the studies with
published a positive result, while the one positive result is often a coincidence between all
other negative results. The European Union makes medical research takes into account
gender differences. (E)
107

138. It is crucial that there are enough places at universities in Belgium for independent research not
was ordered by pharmaceutical companies. The government's task is to invest in them. (F, F)
139. Every nursing home resident receives regular medication evaluation to see if medication can be deleted or
better be dosed. In this way, but also by putting more on the well-being of
nursing homes / residential care centers, we urge antidepressants back there also for the chronically ill and
elderly outside the nursing home / assisted living facility, the pharmacist for a regular review of
medication. See also higher in the role of the pharmacist on the first line. (F)
140. Many hospitals for their financial viability depends on the turnover of their hospital
running. This is an unhealthy situation. It encourages the use of too much and too expensive pharmaceuticals. We
reform the financing of hospitals so that they are financially viable regardless of their pharmacy (see also
further). (F) In addition, Green transparency ask about the discounts given by the hospital pharmacies
purchase of medicines. We encourage hospitals to their tenders for medicines
organize group rather than individually. So we continue pushing the price of medicines. (F)
141. Green wants to stimulate public debate on therapeutic persistence at the end of life.
Physicians need to inform people better about what treatments to add quality of life and what
not (F). These are not easy conversations and therefore doctors and nurses have time for here
and receive the necessary psychological support is provided. We make room for these times by means of a less
performance-based funding. (F)
142. We further generalize the Regulations on Substance name (VOCs). Doctors indicate on their prescriptions only
scientific substance name, not the brand name and the pharmacists are expected to be the cheapest
deliver product. The current system is sometimes complex for the pharmacists and the patient because the
cheapest product can change every month, but these problems fall away those medicines
for which the model of public procurement is entered (see proposal 50). (F)
143. Drugs are at the pharmacy dispensed in unit-dose packaging. The pharmacist can be so exact
take some pills from the large packs. Half Empty cases the patient should not return.
We carry this system initially for medication that goes to nursing homes. (F)
144. We inform and sensitize doctors about their prescribing behavior. Recommendations, guidelines and protocols
Based on scientific evidence to be clearly structured offer. Existing initiatives
independent medical representatives, which doctors provide independent information about drugs,
We promote further. (F)
145. Awareness of the patient. The scientific information on which medicines punched off
designated in that situation is also made available in an accessible manner on a website
for the patient. (F)

HALT TO EXCESSIVE PERFORMANCE
146. For chronic and multiple illnesses is a flat fee per patient per year and the most appropriate
payment in the first line. For acute conditions there will be an increase in the fixed portion,
For example, to track the global medical file and the multidisciplinary consultation on the
first line and the lines on it. In return we ask for a commitment to quality. (F)
147. On each invoice in the healthcare sector (eg. Home nursing, hospital bill ..) there is a list
of the charged performance in an understandable language so that the patient can verify that no unnecessary
Performance will be charged. If it appears that something is amiss, the patient can in a simple way
challenge. (F)
148. In case of aberrant offsets of performance, we make the system more efficient detection. The service
Medical evaluation and control of such sanctions will get more effective instruments, for example,
in extreme cases we the actual possibility of recovering excessively charged
amount. (F)

HALT ON UNNECESSARY HIGH-PERFORMANCE BY SPECIALIST
CENTRALIZATION
149. Not every hospital has to do everything. Green advocates centralization of highly specialized
hospital services and expensive medical technical devices. The current oversupply stimulates
over-consumption thereof. Moreover, it is detrimental to the quality and the hospital routine and too little experience
with some treatment. By centralizing the government ensures that quality is present in each

108

center may offer the treatment. The condition for more centralization is better cooperation
between less and more specialized hospitals and services and timely referral. (F)
150. At European level, we encourage cooperation among the various agencies that a
assessment of the benefits and value of new health technologies ("health technology
assessment "). (E) In Belgium takes over the Belgian Health Care Knowledge Centre this role further in itself.
(F)
151. The communities are responsible for the recognition standards of hospitals and hospital services.
We seize this opportunity to achieve standards for excellence. For rare diseases
we work together with other countries. (V, B)

REFORM OF THE HOSPITAL FUNDING
152. Green supports a comprehensive reform of the hospital funding. The current funding
has some negative side effects: she works on consumption in the hand and requires a lot of energy
Negotiations between hospital management and specialists. A report of the Federal Knowledge
Health Care shows that a reduction of performance funding not necessarily lead to more
Waiting lists lead. When developing a new financing solution are as following points
(F):
• The dual funding we get from each other so that at hospital level to crawl less time and energy in
Negotiations and more energy left for promoting quality.
• The hospital receives a flat fee per stay and per patient, which varies according to the type of pathology. The
is not necessary for people to be held too long in the hospital, but it is also not desirable to them
quick to dismiss. That sometimes leads to complications and even a re shortly after discharge. To
readmissions to avoid stopping in the forfeit all hospital-related expenses up to one month
discharge from the hospital. The basic funding of the hospital which the minimum cost
government imposes for staff cover.
• About 10% of the funding of hospitals and doctors come from specific programs that the
promote quality of hospital care ("Pay For Quality"). Here we ensure that we
hospitals that more disadvantaged patient groups do not attract penalties.
• Doctors get a separate flat-rate amount for their intellectual achievements.
• The financing of hospitals can not be dissociated from a financing of the first line. We
therefore investigate how funding can be an optimal connection of the first and second line
effect.
153. We consider the monitoring of the patient after discharge from the hospital, especially for the most
vulnerable patients. To accommodate the people, local service organizations at district, village or
designated municipal level. They are building a 24-hour on 24-off assistance in activities of daily
life. Whoever around care needs can call on this service. (V, B)

REAL PATIENTS 'RIGHTS IN LIEU OF MIGRANTS' RIGHTS
154. The patient has the right to look at his medical records. For Green, this should in an easy way
can via electronic and online personal health records. This e-file allows communication
between patients and healthcare providers and allows you to look into the medication schedules and notes to be
make. The patient is still entitled to a printed copy of the file. (F)
155. Health data contains sensitive information. Therefore, we conduct a public campaign about the
consequences that the innovations in e-health to bring and we provide accessible information
subject to all citizens. (F)
156. The Act on Patients' Rights in existence for more than 10 years, but patients and caregivers are too little
aware of these rights. Therefore Green wants more in the training of doctors and nurses
attention devoted to the law and its actual application in practice. We also encourage
Patient education on the rights of the patient in each hospital room or waiting room
patients rights to hang out. (F)
157. To achieve real patients' rights, formal rights do not suffice. Hospital Practice shows that the
patient (or his trustee) or not but briefly informed of the diagnosis and the possible
treatments. All this of course has to do with the hospital organization and the division of labor between
doctors and nurses. The doctor "is doing his round" when the family is not there and
but a short time for the patient. The latter do not always understand the message well and continues with many questions
109

behind. Furthermore, the patient does not know that his medical file, extract and understand the medical jargon
not. The right to information than exists but often it is not easy for the patient to this
information appropriate to interpret or psychological framing. We need a person who is the patient better
guides during the stay in the hospital. The nursing staff should have time
patient counseling as a core task in their job responsibilities include. (F)
158. The participation of the patient in health policy is developed at all levels and strengthened. We
operate a formal framework for the recognition of patients' and we link this to the entry
more structural funding. This funding allows the stability and professionalism of the
associations as possible. It does not replace the various forms of financing to which the
associations present appeal (internal funding, gifts ...). (F, V, B)
159. Green aims to build the status of expert experience in patient care. An experience expert is a
expert in patient care based on personal experience with illness. We call for a representation and
active participation of experts in management and advisory bodies at different levels,
including in the Medicomut. (F)
160. We encourage initiatives that have in mind the participation of the patient to the hospital policy. So
Icuro works in Belgium, a pilot project for patient participation in the boards of directors of hospitals.
(F)

FOR A REAL POLICY FOR MENTAL HEALTH
One in four Belgians encountered during his life with a mental health problem. Yet the spiritual
health care suffers from a substandard funding, a lack of vision and with the great taboo
clinging to psychological problems. Moreover, the emphasis within the mental health too much on the
medical. For example, Belgium has the largest number of psychiatric hospital beds per capita in Europe. And so one gets
depressed patient prescribed in general practice is still medication more often than psychotherapy. That is
perhaps little surprising given the long waiting lists in the basic care of mental health.
By focusing on a strong mental health, we can redundant forced recordings
avoid, because they are very disruptive for patients.

STRENGTHENING community mental health
161. Early intervention with a mental health problem is important to prevent worse. Flanders
has one of the highest suicide rates in Europe. This has to do with the taboo about mental
and problems with the few accessible services on the first line. Therefore it is high time for
a truly ambulatory mental health policy in Flanders. The state reform in this area provides a
lifetime opportunity, and that opportunity will seize green. There will be an overall plan Preventive and Outpatient Mental
Healthcare for Flanders. This plan is based on a thorough analysis of the care needs locally
level. On that basis, we review the decisions about what care where programmed (the
care programming). This programming also complements the existing blind spots and regional distortions in.
Where possible, we inoculate the programming on existing actors, networks and circuits. (V, B)
162. Every person with a mental health problem must be somewhere in the region can get help. Green
believes in the locally based approach allowing actors from one region responsible for all persons
with a psychological or psychiatric distress. We therefore strengthen the (top) local authorities to directing
mental health record. (V, B)
163. We are strengthening the existing care networks, care circuits and mobile teams. We get as much as possible
from the project-based and temporary funding in mental health and move on to more
structural funding such projects in the context of the socialization of
mental health (Article 107). (V, B)
164. We are strengthening the capacity of the basic assistance in the Centers for Mental Health
(CGG). The waiting lists are in fact not a problem of a lack of efficiency, but a lack of
resources. (V, B)
165. Belgium has the largest number of psychiatric beds in Europe. We are building the number of psychiatric
bedded down and put in place better framework conditions for the socialization of
mental health off. (F) Flanders about signs a cooperation agreement with the federal
level. (V, B) A number of current psychiatric beds we convert to beds or crisis
custom internment sites. (F)
166. Green also wants a more systematic knowledge in the field of mental health and
more specifically on the socialization of health care. (V, B)
110

167. We integrate addiction better mental health. (V, B)

GUIDED LEARN, LIVE AND WORK
168. To ensure effective care for people with mental health problems, vote
we the powers of education, welfare, employment, housing and health through clear arrangements better
on each other. (V, B)
169. A preventive and accessible mental health care relies not only on themselves but also on the
social workers in the Centres for Educational Guidance in Social Houses of the CPAS in the Houses
Child in the special youth care in the nursing homes, general practice, and so on. Welfare and
other caregivers on the first line receive additional training to better mental health issues
understand, to guide and to refer targeted. Employees of the CGG regularly
present in the aforementioned primary care system to help the front line workers the right
to make decision. (V, B)
170. support within the residential care for patients with psychiatric problems, we small-scale, locally
anchored initiatives. We are working on a less extensive detailed regulatory framework for such
not to stifle initiatives (for more information see Chapter Welfare). (V, B)
171. It is important that psychiatric patients or patients can participate with mental illness
to society and if at all possible in working life. The existing work and
W² welfare pathways or trajectories constitute the appropriate framework. Green wants these projects further
removal. We thereby give priority to projects and activities for persons who do not, not yet or no longer
be able to undertake paid work and that work to stabilize their medical, mental,
psychological, psychiatric situation to make possible the participation (step 3 in the jargon of W²). (V, B)
172. Burnout we treat in the same way as an accident. Put Labour Organizations
people are under increasing pressure, the risk of mental health problems is increasing. The
number of people that this is temporarily non-operational due to a burn-out increases. Burnout is
undeniably related to stress in the working environment and increases the likelihood of an industrial accident.
Therefore, Green wants a similar process is followed in the treatment of a burn-out as with the
approximation of an accident. If the suspicion is confirmed that it factors in the work environment
be responsible in case of burnout, then carry out the (internal) prevention a deeper
(calamity) research and formulate proposals for improvements to prevent similar cases. A
detailed report is drawn up and the labor inspectorate and the external service or occupational
sent. (F)
173. The advisory physicians of the health insurance work better together with the occupational physicians and get
more training and support around psychosocial aspects. The government encourages cooperation
Gumtree, occupational physicians, companies and the advisory physicians of the health insurance funds. (F, V, B)

A LOWER THRESHOLD FOR MENTAL HEALTH CARE
174. The recognition of clinical psychologists and psychotherapists is now a fact. Green also wants the next
step out and work on the repayment of psychotherapy and psychological help at the first
line. (F) If a psychologist employed is the same practice as a general practitioner, this can lower the threshold
to make the move to mental health care. Therefore, we encourage the use of psychologists
multidisciplinary health practices. (V, B)
175. There is, in Flanders too little knowledge about how patients with a migration background or with another
cultural background really are accompanied by their mental health problem. Green therefore wants
Citizenship and Integration Agency is given the task to develop this knowledge and so the workers
mental health support in this. (V, B)
176. We take initiatives and support campaigns to bring about a more positive image
of mental illness and mental health. (V, B)

A FRAMEWORK FOR socialization IN THE SPIRITUAL
HEALTHCARE
Socialization is a positive trend, but the social conditions have not been met. Therefore
socialization brings great risks: a poverty or low income patients, a budget that
not enough to buy the necessary care and day care, the lack of support for carers. The
111

overburdened health insurance generates enough resources for everyone - the elderly, persons with disabilities, persons
with mental illness - be able to operate, allowing the latter falling increasingly by the wayside.
177. The caregiver and the children, parents, siblings of a person with mental illness
deserve more support. In the chapter on welfare are several steps to improve carers
support. In mental health, there are specific needs for large and adequate respite care
support for the family. (F, V, B)
178. The participation of psychiatric patients we encourage through education and statute
experts to provide (see proposal 79). (V, B)
179. A further expansion of the regular home care is for patients with psychological or psychiatric
problem invaluable. (V, B)
180. The benefits of the health insurance remain accessible for people with a psychiatric disorder.
The classification of these persons is done in a careful way that takes into account their specific
problems. (V, B)

WORKING WITH PROLONGED AND CHRONIC ILLNESS EASIER
Many people who are ill, are keen on their speed and their size back to work. The arrangements
However, incapacity and disability are quite rigid in this area.
181. We provide health insurance and occupational physicians a more active role in reintegration and in seeking
solutions in order to combine a chronic disease with work. (F) See also Section Work.
182. We make the systems more attractive gradual resumption of work and the system of authorized work
better known by consulting physicians. (F)
183. We carry a unique medical examination or grading linked in to all the rights to sickness or disability and
we encourage the exchange of information between the federal and regional levels. (F, V, B)
184. We work barriers that stand in the way partial work with a long-term illness. (F) So
we avoid that the right to increased child abolished upon re-employment and avoid
we that when relapse occurs again a waiting period of six months. (V, B)

CARE PROFESSIONAL IN COTTON WOOL
185. It is necessary to succeed in a clear, objective way that health care providers (doctors,
nurses, dentists, physiotherapists ...) which are at work. Green advocates drafting
a land register, a document that lists the List on how many doctors and other health providers there are, what they
do exactly and how they work. Such a register, the Planning Commission (the committee that determines
how many students the correct number of students may register) able to correct specializations
to allow flow through. In addition, continuing efforts are made to the profession of doctor
making attractive.
186. For health professionals the call for a better work-life balance getting louder, and rightly so. On the
first line we therefore encourage multidisciplinary group practices and feasible call duty (see above). We
also encourage hospitals, care homes and other care to bet on a
attractive combination policy, both for nurses, care specialists, administrative staff and for
specialist doctors. (F)
187. Further investments in the computerization of the care and lighten the administrative work make
communication between doctors and patients easier (see above and also see the e-Health Action Plan 20,132,018). (F, V, B)
188. The introduction of new financing systems in healthcare we seize every distribution
resources between the various doctors let on the basis of fairer criteria to happen. There comes a
fairer remuneration for intellectual services regarding technical performance. We will also bring
factors such necessary presence, sense of responsibility, consequences of decisions and
actions necessary study to stay current in the field, ... charged. For some specialists, the
currently often more attractive to practice their profession in private practice or in a hospital context.
In a hospital, the point is often to patients with concomitant diseases requiring increased supervision and time,
to emergency or acute care that the daily schedule rollover. Call duty which also
Hospital doctors must rotate make it extra heavy. In this way, we also make the profession of
emergency doctor back attractive. So we are working on a double redirection of funds for the
remuneration of doctors and specialists: away from the overvalued technical performance to the
intellectual achievements and away from the villa to the hospital medicine medicine (with special
appreciation for emergency services and guard duties). (F)
112

189. To counter the flat career of nurses, we introduce a new feature in as
reference nurse for quality patient support in the middle. Via a better
sophisticated load balancing physicians should spend less time on tasks that nurses can do,
and nurses should spend less time on tasks that can make care experts. This should not
detract from the individuality and autonomy of these professions. This further feature differentiation, who made
also functions necessary to keep the overview. That is why the revaluation of professions as
general practitioners, internists, geriatricians and nurses is important. (F, V, B)
190. The government remains committed to the promotion of the health care profession. (F, V, B) We also care professions
accessible to lateral entrants via the recognition of prior learning. (F, V) Concretely
some care experts are not recognized because they have not worked in a recognized institution. However,
they often do the same work as their colleagues in a recognized institution. They are the acquired competences
count for Green and not the place where those skills were acquired. We also relax the procedure
for the recognition of medical diplomas and degrees obtained from other health care providers in
Abroad. This procedure is currently too heavy, unwieldy and corny. (F, F)

RARE, AND MISUNDERSTOOD Incurable
191. Be diseases are very rare diseases that affect less than 5 in 10,000 persons. In order to accommodate
come to the needs of these patients, we raise funds for the elaboration of the national plan
for rare diseases as prepared by the Fund for Rare Diseases and Orphan Drugs and
King Baudouin Foundation. (F, V, B)
192. For heavy chronic conditions that are subject to the diagnoses of Chronic
Fatigue syndrome (CFS) / Myalgic Encephalomyelitis (ME), fibromyalgia is a better ...
counseling of the patients needed. These are diseases that are still largely misunderstood and the existing right
Currently reimbursed treatments often fail. Green requires further scientific research into



(F)

193. Dementia is working on an exponential rise. We support the continuation of initiatives
"Dementia friendly community" to which people with dementia and their carers valuable
participate. (F) We recognize and subsidize the function of reference doctor dementia within the GP circuit
and reference person dementia in home care, nursing home and hospital. These referees
the point of contact and support center for colleagues with regard to questions about their own patients
dementia. (F)
194. With the transfer of palliative care in Flanders there will be a substantial increase in the
budget for palliative care and networking. The demand for such care is now larger than what palliative
care teams can offer on the basis of resources. (V)

113

BIOLOGICAL AND MEDICAL ETHICS
VISION
Offer new developments in biology and medical sciences
opportunities for a better quality of life. But these developments raise at once
ethical, medical, social, economic and legal questions. Green wants the respect
life, ensure the integrity and self-determination and
respecting precautionary principle. A broad public debate is needed on bio-ethics
issues. The government sets a clear framework with the necessary demarcations fixed and
follows the developments closely.

PROPOSALS
1.

Green believes that no political value judgment must pass on how people living in a medically hopeless
situation be like to die, with or without the interference of others, with or without life-shortening
surgeries. Politicians have to provide the legal framework for people, doctors and health care providers,
hospitals and residential care centers.
Green would like a comprehensive law for care at end of life. Existing legislation
around palliative care, euthanasia and patient rights is fragmented and has gaps. It is clearer to
pour all the legislation on euthanasia and palliative care in one comprehensive law. Today happens
participate in the twilight zone and outside the law, and that is green clearance as much as possible. We also want more
clarity regarding the referral requirement for doctors, nurses and legal
pharmacists, and the right to information of the patient and the duty of care institutions for their
Setting policy in advance to notify when recording to the residents. Green wants a clear mechanism for
minors and incompetent persons. For minors Green suggests that a multidisciplinary team
decides on the judgment ability. Wilson Skilled persons have an advance directive in advance
capture whereby they can decide when they want euthanasia. Of course, this should be
be followed by a multidisciplinary team and a trustee designated by the patient, and
all feasible precautions are observed. The treaties in the context of the well
patients' rights must be registered with the government. It must be possible to this
be captured on the chip of the ID card, if one wants to.
2. ethical issues, which may or may not be legislated, such as euthanasia, organ transplantation,
abortions, infertility, etc., it is important that everyone is clearly aware
is the position of the institution where they work or patient and the procedures to follow. The current
responsibilities of Ethics Committees should therefore be extended to all ethical problems
may occur within the institution. The Ethics Committee should report to provide mandatory advice to the
management of the institution and health care workers. The government must ensure that these opinions do
solid and used provided.
3. Women have specific acts right choice to voluntary termination of pregnancy to
make. This right is contained in the Act of April 4, 1990 and can for Green in no way called into question
be.
A report by the Human Rights Council of the UN in 2011 6 states that voluntarily terminating a
Pregnancy must be considered a human right. Both outside and inside the European Union, there are
However, many countries where women have no access to legal abortion. Green is committed to both
inside and outside Europe to defend the right of voluntary termination of pregnancy.
4. At this moment it is not possible in Belgium to give birth to express without your identity. Green advocates
sure in order to allow a form of "discrete birth", subject to the necessary auxiliary measures. In this
case the mother's name does not appear on the birth certificate, but are certain evidence listed
and stored. Both mother and child may later - based on the retained data - take the initiative
to come in contact with each other. If one of the parties does not want this, there must be through legal mediation to
solution to be sought. Green on the other hand rejects the possibility to give birth anonymously, because this
ignores the rights of the child.
5. Green explicitly rejects any form of commercial surrogacy.
6

http://www.un.org/ga/search/view_doc.asp?symbol=A/66/254

114

6.

7.

8.

9.

10.

11.

115

An arrangement around surrogacy can be for us as long as the provision of sufficient guarantees of
rights and interests of the minor. Green wants in this context sufficient attention to guidance, for,
during and after the whole process of conception and birth. The child has a right to (inspect) information on
his / her origin and the guidance that. A decoupling of parental rights and
responsibilities and the donor (in high-tech surrogate motherhood) to be established.
Reproductive cloning (the creation of an individual who is genetically identical to one another living or dead
individual) Green will admit to no avail. The use of techniques for eugenic
targets (with a view to the improvement of the human race) is excluded for Green.
Plants, animals and humans, or parts thereof, as well as natural physiological processes or genetic
codes, can never fall under the intellectual property of biotechnological inventions. A patent
to life is excluded.
The basic conditions and care conditions for the use of embryos for scientific
Research must be strictly observed: use of embryos for scientific research
only when no other suitable options are available. Research is preferably done
with surplus embryos. Only if this is not possible, especially for the research studies with
created embryos. The consent of the data subjects for scientific research on supernumerary
embryos to leave, is required. They are sufficiently informed before. Research on embryos older than
14 days remains excluded. Embryos which scientific research has been done can not be
replaced. Commercialization is out of the question: the use of embryos should be no financial gain
bring to researchers and fertility centers or donor.
Application of techniques of assisted reproduction to the sex of the unborn child
Choosing is not allowed, except to prevent a tied to gender, serious hereditary disease.
On the advice of the local ethics committees, the Federal Commission for the Supervision of the Law on
scientific research on embryos in vitro, and the Advisory Committee on Bioethics defines the minister
Health of the diseases covered by these criteria.
The Law on Medical Assisted Reproduction provides a framework for sperm and egg donation. About the
anonymity of donors, which is provided at present by law, however, remain different
opinions exist. Green therefore calls for an open and broad social debate on the desirability of
the lifting of the anonymity of sperm and egg donors and the rights and obligations of the
traceability of donors should or may arise. Based on the outcome of this debate could
if necessary legislation be developed for the process of the possible reveal of
Donor data on child and / or parents. In Belgium, according to the law of July 6, 2007 possible egg or
sperm donation either fully known basis (between family members or friends), either completely anonymous
way (sperm bank or anonymous exchange donation) to perform. This latter form is indeed the most
applied. Although this offers a number of advantages relating to the protection of the donor and the acceptor,
The child therefore has no way of certain characteristics or the identity of the donor
find out if it later feel the need. It would therefore be better to add also a third system
show, where there are indeed working with anonymous donors, but who are willing to Dutch model
certain identifiable characteristics to release, so that later, under certain conditions
information or even contact between the child and donor is possible. Green not advocating for the
anonymity to abolish, but in order to carry out in parallel the system of "well-known" donors, so that donors and
acceptors have the choice, depending on what they think the future child the most important.
The techniques that make it possible to support functions in premature birth are refined in such a way that the
limit of survival is reduced to extremely young ages. This process has important ethical
Implications for the three parties involved: the child, the parents and the medical and nursing staff.
In general terms, would be an increase in survival of extreme preterm infants are not allowed to translate in a
increase in disability. If the latter is the case, then the medical technique creates more harm than that they
brings solace. In individual cases it is very difficult to estimate the survival
and the quality of survival of extremely premature infants. During the process of care for the extreme
premature, caring commands not only the life chances but also the quality of life and well-being
to monitor the child concerned and his parents. If the continuation of intensive care results in a child
with a heavily mortgaged quality of life will live on, it is appropriate that the
providing care team after careful multidisciplinary consultation (gynecologists, paediatricians, nurses)
arrangements with the parents about the reduction and cessation of intensive support. It does not
more increase or discontinuation of intensive medical care does not mean that care without suspended
becomes. Judgments on are ethical from continuing neonatal intensive care,
may then, after the preparation of a full workup in consultation with the institution concerned and the
parents are taken.

12. Green favors the humanization of legislation concerning the procedures for the undesirable early
loss of an unborn child. The confrontation with legal and administrative obligations must mourning
the parents do not make even heavier. Such arrangements around here may be entitled in any way
bring a voluntary termination of pregnancy at risk.

116

REDUCE THE GAP
PENSIONS
VISION
One of the five Belgian elderly people at risk of poverty. Some qualify this by
saying that many older people own a home. But they forgot to tell adamant that
This home also requires maintenance and that more and more elderly people struggling to
pay energy bill of their home. For Green, it is clear: poverty among the elderly is
a modern welfare state unworthy. The statutory pension has a dual task:
it must protect every elderly against poverty, but it is also sufficient for a
to maintain a certain standard of living.

Therefore, a strengthening of the statutory pension, the first pillar, necessary. Green does not want to
we for our old age depend on the uncertainty of financial markets.
Supplementary pensions not therefore be complementary and form the core of the
pension debate.

For Green respects a good pension individual life choices and punishes
atypical careers unfinished. Especially for women this is still too often the case today,
but for whom self-employment, employee and / or officer of a mixed career
had. However his career turns, part-time and temporary stoppages very
normal in a modern, relaxed career. Moreover, it is not the Green paid work
only way to contribute to or to participate in the community. Other types of
activities such as care work and care we would also appreciate for retirement.

Unjust differences, including between officials, professionals and workers,
get support for the pension down. Therefore Green wants these differences
gradual phasing-out. Green advocates the logical mechanism that worked more
years lead to a higher pension. At the same time there is still room for more solidarity and
redistribution between pensioners with the largest capacity and the
toppensioenen and the other large group of retirees.

To continue paying the pensions in the future calls for a mixed green
strategy. Working longer is a part of the solution to the pension bill
pay. However, the pension modernization means first of careers
better support and better workable (see the Section work). So will only be
more work for more people an option. We also propose a new structural
alternative funding for social security. In addition, more (sustainable)
jobs necessary for more people, both young and old.

Any reform of the pension system has Green eye of the person behind the
career. It affects some simply raising the statutory retirement age
unjust hard: who has a long career behind him or in a difficult job
117

worked and therefore has little healthy retirement years ahead. Counting in
career years for Green a first step towards a more equitable pension system.

PROPOSALS
EVERY OLDER HUMANE INCOME THROUGH THE CLOSING LIMIT
1.

There will be an absolute floor under our pension. This guarantees the right to a dignified
old age for everyone. Any pension starts counting from the poverty line and not from scratch. Via a
Green universal basic pension guarantees that people beyond retirement not covered by the
end poverty line. In 2014 it is about 1000 euros, except for those who have not worked a single year,
cohabits, which gets 750 euros. The basic pension you get based on citizenship, as in the Netherlands, and not
based on the distance traveled career. The basic pension is a huge administrative simplification.
The means test on the income for the elderly (GRAPA) is no longer necessary, nor
as the complex calculation of the minimum pension. By achieving the basic pension on retirement
a very efficient way are assigned automatically. So pensioners can not get out the boat
fall because they do not know their rights. The more costs we finance through the extinction of the family,
divorce and survivors' pensions, the reduction of tax incentives for the third pillar, the savings
the administration and the capping of pensions up to four times the amount of the poverty line. (F)
2. Within Europe, we reverse the race to the social soil. Now competes each country to pension costs as
low as possible to maintain. Instead, Member States shall decide together to minimum standards for pensions
enter that are sufficient to eradicate poverty. We investigate the possibility of a European
basic pension to enter which can vary based on national poverty lines. So we put unfair
competition to cooperation. (E)
3. The European Union's objective for 2020 twenty million fewer people in poverty, but occurs at the social level too
weak to achieve this. Therefore Green wants stronger European instruments
poverty, for example, binding European directives. Specifically for the elderly will be a Directive with the
target to reduce poverty among the elderly drastically by 2020. Another directive provides that all
pension payments to be made and therefore indexed not only linked, but also
grow along with the evolution of wages in each Member State. (E)

PLUS A LEGAL RETIREMENT ON TOP OF POVERTY THRESHOLD BY WORKED
YEAR
4. The statutory retirement does more than prevent poverty. It also guarantees the maintenance of a
adequate standard of living after retirement. For Green, the statutory retirement so much more than the
basic pension. On top of the basic pension retirees receive a pension that is greater as they
more years have worked. Work pays for retirement. This part of the statutory pension we calculate
based on the number of hours worked and of the (capped) salary during their career. (F)
5. As long as there is no universal basic pension, we do not touch the assimilated periods. These are not worked
periods in the career for which you still acquiring pension rights. This equivalent periods are important
for those who have the misfortune to become ill or unemployed. Green does not want these people punished twice
be: once during the career and again after retirement. After the introduction of the basic pension
all non-employment periods are at least partially covered. Therefore, at that time some of
equivalent periods reduced count for the statutory supplement (eg a calculation
based on the fixed salary). (F)
6. Like any pension reform, the transition to this new system with respect for acquired
rights and with an eye for transitional measures. (F)
7. During the transitional period, we can already take steps towards a basic pension:
• The amount of income for the elderly (GRAPA) increase for everyone so that at least the
poverty level (F), an accelerated introduction of automatic allocation of the right
Income for the Elderly. (F)
• Increasing the minimum pension to at least 1200 euros per month, and getting rid of the disadvantage
part-time workers through a pro rata calculation. (F)

118

•

The height of it all middle and low structural inflation-proof pensions. So pensions
only indexing, but also automatically increase as wages grow. Green opposes any
further erosion of wealth envelope. (F)

Unjust DIFFERENCES IN PENSION FROM THE DEAF
8. Two people doing the same work, and they do just as long, building for the future career years
equivalent pension. The differences between employees and officials will fade out. We leave
the principle of pensions as deferred pay for civil servants and replace it if necessary by a
sufficiently competitive remuneration package. The budget volume which has been used in the past for
employees' and public service pensions be redistributed among all retired employees and
civil servants. In the longer term we also strive for a more equal pension for the self-employed. This
coupled with a more equitable contribution tax. (F)
9. We strengthen solidarity among pensioners. Through the investment yield that
pension system finances it, including the most affluent retirees their bit. We
reduce the gap between the highest and lowest pensions. We do not want pensions under the
poverty and pensions, no more than four times the basic pension. (F)

THE LEGAL RETIREMENT MUST DO IT
10. The statutory pension or strengthening the first pillar is the priority of Green. We as a society invest in
the first pillar with funds from Social Security and from the general funds. Supplementary pensions
remain complementary: we see them as an extra, but they should not be necessary for a dignified
old day. So no single pensioner is for her or his pension depends on investments
risky markets. (F)
11. The social partners play a crucial role in the further expansion of the second pillar so that the inequality
disappears between sectors and no second pillar. This is done through social dialogue: the additional
company pension plans are important aspects of the wage negotiations. For Green continues to strengthen
the statutory pension for all priority over stimuli for the second pillar. For those who already
a second pillar gets, the government will only boost up to a fixed ceiling. The
loopholes that exist in the current system in order to circumvent this ceiling we close. (F)
12. Tax incentives for the third pillar (pension savings and long-term savings), we finish building and investing in
strengthening the first pillar. The first pillar each retiree benefits and not just who it is
can afford to spare. Green wants the people freely make saving for retirement, but
does not agree that the government should encourage investment in financially uncertain markets. . (F)
13. Green wants consumers who invest in pension funds and other retirement savings better
protect. There will be a legal framework to ensure the transparency in the sale of such financial
increases instruments. (E, F) We also carry stricter standards and control in with a view to a better
risk management and we prohibit speculative investments. (E, F), we let the crisis supplementary
pensions will not erode and maintain the minimum guarantee in the second pillar. (F)
14. We encourage pension funds and pension insurers to provide the money for the additional
pension paid to reinvest in sustainable projects that benefit the community or
in government bonds. (E, F)
15. In its recommendations, the European Union takes a more nuanced attitude towards the
privatization of pensions through the second and third pillars, and she also brings systematically in their relative risks
map. (E)

WOMAN-FRIENDLY PENSION
16. The basic pension is the measure of choice to reduce poverty among retired women, for
it compensates for intermittent or part-time careers. (F)
17. As soon as there is a guarantee of a dignified retirement above the poverty line for everyone is the
pension split the new standard. When one of the partners in a couple extra time for care
record, we redistribute the pension within the couple. For example, when one partner fulltime
works and the other half-time, they build both 3rd / 4th pension. Thus, we also guarantee that the
partner whose pension chooses to build the family and reserves in the event of a divorce. The
119

pension split applies to people who are married and for those who have a cohabitation contract
closed. Green ensures that the split never leads to two mini small pensions. (F)
18. Green does not want to divorce the partner's career slowed what care is being punished for an
choice that both partners have created together. We therefore anchor the pension split as legal
default option also when it comes to the supplementary pension within the second pillar. (F)
19. Following the introduction of the basic pension and the pension split, derivative pension may like
family pension, the pension and survivor's divorce be phased out gradually. Thereby
Green does not touch the rights acquired. The transitional arrangement we provide a more proportional
reducing the pension for a survivor who accumulates with authorized work. (F)

AN ACCESS TO BASIC SERVICE WITH CLEAR INFORMATION
20. The grant of the pension is as automatic as possible. The different pension administrations
exchange data in a smooth way out. Green wants better cooperation between the
pension administration leads to a smoother finish, especially in the calculation of mixed pensions
(combination of employee, self- employed civil service pension) (F). The income for the elderly
(IGO) is awarded automatically accelerated (F). The introduction of the basic pension and the extinction of the
differences between civil servants employed persons will eventually merging the
pension administration possible (F).
21. We inform people better about their retirement. Therefore we build "Know Your Retirement" accelerated. Via a
online tool, anyone can perform simulations career and gain an insight into the effects of certain
career choices on the pension. There are also simulations for the supplementary pension.
Residents also receive an annual statement of the pension rights they already built up. (F)
22. We continue to improve the portability of pension rights built up abroad. There comes a
automatic exchange of information between the pension administrations of the different countries, which
also accrued rights abroad can be granted on time automatically. (E, F)

PENSION POSSIBLE AFTER 42 YEARS CAREER OR YOUR 65TH
23. Green, anyone who wants to from 65 years to record the pension. But buying the early retirement
we off. Instead, we count on career years. Who 42 years of career at the counter stand, may
retirement, regardless of age. This system is fairer for those who started working at an early age. Often
are also those with the toughest careers. Who at eighteen already started working, can after 42 years
availability on the labor market at its sixtieth retired. Who started at the age of twenty with
work can be retired at the earliest record from 64 years. With these 42 years, we especially encourage career
those with short careers to work effectively longer. Because working longer is indeed required to
pensions and health care affordability in the future, although it is not the only solution.
The condition for this reform that improves the workability of all professions, and of the physical and
psychologically stressful professions in particular (see Chapter work). (F)
24. A career year is each year that you are available for the care or labor market which includes periods of
paid work, involuntary unemployment, sickness or disability, runways, parental leave or work under
the status of caregiver. Years of supposedly unmotivated time credit we do not count as
career years. (F)
25. The pension bonus and other related measures, we rely on the principle of "several years of career '
and not on the age condition. (F)
26. Retirement does not mean a mandatory inactivity. With the rise in the number of healthy life years
many want to remain active after retirement, as a volunteer or by taking on caring responsibilities. Some
also want to continue working. Who after age 65 or after 42 years of career will continue to work, and it may
also builds social security rights. However, the condition is an enhancement of the legal
pensions and the guarantee that the pension is sufficiently high so that no one should out of financial necessity
keep working. There will also be a full-fledged status for over-65s, because right now they do not have
the same rights as they get their resignation, become ill or unemployed. (F)

CONTINUE INVESTING IN THE PENSIONERS OF TOMORROW
27. Green argues for continued funding of the social security and pensions in particular. To
to continue paying the pensions of tomorrow we choose best for a mixed strategy of more people
get work, work longer, and seek alternative sources of funding for social security:
120

•

•
•

121

By shifting the tax burden from labor to capital gains tax in combination with
charges on pollution we create additional jobs. These additional jobs will make more people to contribute
social security and pensions. (F)
We will increase the workability of the jobs and investing in quality and relaxed careers. On this
way people can remain longer in the workforce. Working longer means working differently. (F)
We work a structural broader funding base for social security through alternative financing.
Therefore we declare the capital gains tax to include income and proceeds from the
fight against tax fraud. (F)

FAMILY POLICY
VISION
We invest in Belgium very much in children, and that's only natural. Investing in
children equals investing in the future. We invest a lot, but not good
enough. We can not prevent the year 2014 that many children growing up in poverty. A
European comparison makes this painfully clear: Belgium sets like Scandinavian
countries double the resources for family policies as the countries of southern Europe;
Belgium, like the countries of southern Europe twice as many children in poverty
as the Nordic countries. Green is a more efficient and effective support
families.

A first crucial condition to a good family policy consists of the guarantee
that every child can grow up in an environment where financial worries minimized
are. Therefore it is not fair that children from low-income families more
get support.

An exemplary family policy creates an environment where raising children is evident,
and that is much more than a mere financial support for families. At least as
great importance is the guarantee that households have sufficient time and support to the education of
children possible. That means parents during the prime of life
enough time for their children free. It also means that parents without a job
can make use of services such as child care to increase their chances of finding a job
and offer their children better opportunities later in their school careers. The right to education
Today is not guaranteed for disadvantaged parents. For example, in Antwerp, Genk and
Ostend less than 30 places per 100 children, compared with over 50 in Leuven, Bruges
and Hasselt.

The Flemish decree of childcare March 2012 is not a good decree and will have rewritten
are to take effect in 2015. The decree is for children only
working parents. It sets the wrong quality. The decree gives too little space
to local actors. The close integration of childcare and nursery education from. Green
wants to guarantee a better decree that these errors can be erased before
they disrupt childcare.

Green is for childcare over 'reception' and 'care', but an educational project
All children under 6 years. Now a child 'looked after' to 2.5 years in small groups and 'learns'
the school from three years in classes with 30 children. Green will provide education and care
integrate tailored to the child.

PROPOSALS
CORRECT FINANCIAL SUPPORT FOR FAMILIES
1.

Sufficiently high minimum wages and minimum benefits.
We draw on minimum benefits and wages above the poverty line. This is the first condition for
ensuring that all children can grow up in an environment that is spared from poverty.
2. Child premiums based on income and assets.
We propose that the basic amount for the first child in the current regime as general support for
to maintain every child. A child from a family whose income and / or capital in the highest ten percent
is, given the basic amount. The basic amount is added for a child from all other families
122

declining income and equity-related benefit as soon as possible. This will provide parents of children
the need for a higher benefit.
This proposal underlines that can not dally with the development of a capability register. Without
ability cadastre child premium can not stand up to the power in relationships.
In this way also needs the precarious situation of children from single-parent families can be addressed. We
provide no premium for single parents, but only a premium for low-income families,
regardless of family situation. That parent families more at risk of poverty, they will also
more are eligible for this income or assets related supplement.
3. Children from the same family are worth.
Every child in the family on an equal footing. Within a family, no distinction is made between the
oldest and the second or third child in line. We procure the unequal treatment between children
same family off, both in terms of tax exemptions in the calculation of the allowance. Certainly
in stepfamilies and forms of co-parenting is such simplification is necessary.
4. Harmonisation of allowances.
As part of the sixth state reform the family were removed from the federal social security
to be transferred to the regions. For the Brussels region it is a very cumbersome
exercise. There needs to be taken to ensure that the child premiums intrafederaal as many as possible in parallel.

FAMILIES SUPPORT TO AN EXPANDED SERVICE
5. Child care for all children.
Quality childcare for all children show the best guarantee for social mobility. We
choose radical for a family policy that invests in young children.
All children must have access to quality childcare. This means that child care
should be accessible to children from disadvantaged backgrounds, children of parents who do not or
part-time work, for children of single parents or for children with disabilities. In Flanders
the promise to be respected in childcare in 2020 to provide a place for every child needs.
The need for child care is geographically very different. The local supply of child must
take into account this need, and the specific characteristics of the child population.
6. A "municipal house of the child '.
The role of director we give to local authorities in Flanders and in Brussels at the FCC. The local reality
, cooperation between small municipalities or community-oriented operation within larger municipalities course
allow, or outsource this direction at, for example, Child & Family. With all partners active in the
childcare makes the city a plan is drawn out how the need for child care
best be filled and how a plan can be drawn to child care a right for every child
make. It was agreed that the partner will realize expansion. The government funds these plans
and give more resources to municipalities with more poverty. When municipal childcare can counter any
parents get information about available childcare places. The "house of the child" also organizes
For other educational support such a systematic approach.
7. A framework with room for autonomy and self-management.
The legal work form of childcare for a child not important. Each child opens a right to equal
subsidization, legal work form of child care is irrelevant. The regulations and the
quality control system is based on trust in shelters, not everything in stifling rules
witty. Green is for quality more than safety.
There is room for innovative initiatives such as the temporary status of childminder or cooperative
initiatives. For example, one or more parents interrupt the career for a number of years, their own children at
to capture and as a childminder a number of other children.
8. Expand the school with a quality care before and after school hours.
During that schooling should also be further investment in quality before and after school.
For example, parents who work and family in a smooth way to combine not restricted in this choice. In a
number of sectors can be realized by means of schoolbelcontracten, in other sectors
these employees flexibility does not exist and is more flexible with the school bell hop about a solution. But
more than one answer to the flexibility needs of parents, the school, a project that eye
for the needs of children who are in need of rest, a corner to retire, music, sports, ...
For a detailed discussion of the proposals of Green on education please refer to the
chapter.
123

MAKE TIME FOR THE FAMILY
A sustainable combination of work - family involves mothers and fathers. We make the work-life balance
easier. Paternity leave for employees we expand from ten to fifteen obliged to
take days. We encourage more men to take parental leave. When two partners or
former partners in co-parenting each receive parental leave of four months, they get together three
additional months. A single parent with no co-parenting gets an additional parental leave of seven
months. For each child comes for every month of parental leave benefits at the current level
stand.
Removal of the seniority requirement for parental leave. The seniority requirement in
taking parental leave is deleted. Now, an employee must have worked for a year at a
employer to establish entitlement to parental leave. This not only many workers
excluded from the right to reserve time for the education of his or her child, but also the
mobility on the labor market unnecessarily restricted. Flexicurity means for an employee that
workers flexible and new contracts have the certainty that time can be made available for the
education of young children.
Also, children of self-gain time and attention from their parents. For the self-employed, we want this
leave fully effective, every child is entitled to the same amount of attention and time. We carry a
paternity leave for self-employed and extend maternity leave from. If desired, the
partly in the form of a temporary replacement power or a packet service checks. We are working on a
parental leave for the self-employed.
Parents care for sick children. In case of illness of the child's parents can take time off from their jobs to care
to take on the child. This arrangement can be recorded until the child is 12 years old. These days can also
are recognized when the daycare mom / dad is sick or the child should visit a doctor or because of illness
stay home. After seven days, you need a doctor's explanation.
With the care given every need of care care of his family. People need raft during career
time to spend on caring for people in their surroundings and for the education of children. The
strengthen the systems for care will therefore have priority. Instead of a fragmented regime
(thematic leave, time credit) comes one easily accessible care system with two branches: one branch
'upbringing and care of children "and a branch" care for the sick and badly in need of care. " In the first branch
evolves the current time credit for young children to a child-related law. The time for care is not
longer deducted from the time for other important activities during their careers (such as time credit
education). In the second branch evolves the existing fixed set of rights for care time step
step in the direction of an insurance policy logic. Within that logic, we give care according to the (proven)
Emergency set itself. Those who want or need caregiving, more time rights. This can be provided that an audit of the
time care needed by a paramedical team. The right to leave through death, we extend to one week.
A time to fund their own projects. Green wants to increase the autonomy time of all employees. The creation of
a time fund is an instrument to achieve this. The fund gives everyone the right time in the course of
his or her lifetime career temporarily in and out of the labor market and to devote himself to other
activities according to his / her priorities at the time:
• Unconditional right to a time credit of five years over the entire working career. The first year may already
be introduced after 18 months of work done.
• Smoother formulas than the current capabilities 4/5 or half-time.
• A time credit also for singles and single-parent families by increasing financial support.
• A uniform statute for all employees, regardless of status or sector.
For self-employed analog time fund is created.
To fellow workers not to load and distribute work better for more people is necessary
linking a replacement duty on time credit from three consecutive months.

FOCUS ON THE DIVERSITY OF FAMILY ARE IN OUR SOCIETY
9. Green advocates social parenthood.
And family compositions are very diverse: in addition to the traditional family as a married
heterosexual couple, our society has many other family forms such as single parents, couples
same sex, newly composed families ... The current legislation does not ensure the rights
and obligations of all persons involved in the various forms of families in which children are raised. The
should be possible to grant a social status with rights and duties between a child and a
person who is involved in his upbringing. So we need a legal framework for the social old, this is
124

a person who in addition to legal parents plays an important role in the upbringing of the child and a
special emotional bond with the child can demonstrate, as the partner of one of the legal parents,
close relative, a known donor.
10. Align legislation for co-mothers.
At present co-mothers should adopt their child to have to get along a legal bond. To this end,
a procedure should be followed with the associated costs. This entails for the co-mother, the
biological mother and the child a temporary (at least half a year) legal uncertainty with it. The
existing legislation must therefore be adjusted so that: (1) a married co-mother automatically
second legal parent is the child born during marriage and (2) the unmarried
co-mother to the child at the registry could accept either during pregnancy or after birth,
as the father can already. This is a simple, accurate and secure way to make the child be entitled to two
To ensure full legal parents. Mutatis mutandis, the same applies to men. Meevaders be
also recognized.

125

POVERTY REDUCTION
VISION
The 2013 Yearbook on Poverty and Social Exclusion shoved two for policymakers
remarkable findings forward. A. Despite all promises the policy succeeds the
In recent years not to address poverty in our country. The proportion of people in
Poverty remains unacceptably high at 15%. The number of children growing up in poverty
increasing. At present 19% of our children in a poor family. Two. Poverty
is often a temporary phenomenon. That means that the proportion of people in poverty
making is much higher than 15 or 19%. But that also means you have a good policy
people can get quickly out of poverty. That should give courage. Supporting people to take them out
pick poverty worthwhile.

Green is therefore in favor of a renewed focus on poverty reduction. Green
want fewer people in poverty. Not on paper, but in reality. Not by 2020, but already
during the next legislative session.

Three principles should occupy a central place in a policy that tackles poverty.
Firstly, sustainability is the benchmark in the environmental, social and economic policy.
It is important that everyone is convinced of the fact that social
justice, ecological sustainability and general welfare the best policy choices
in the long term. Secondly, solidarity and redistribution essential to policy
of the future. Where the ability of the richest 10 percent in Belgian 1998 50 times as
was great as that of the poorest tenth, that is 735 times as large. With a transparent and
fair tax, a capital gains tax and a wealth tax
we can this development to a halt. Solidarity also means that people in
poverty are not geculpabiliseerd. Who is poor, has just as much right to quality education
or support for the education of children. Third, particular attention was nominated for
colored poverty. Poverty rates are especially at people of a different ethnic
descent alarmingly high. The poverty risk lies with people of non-European descent three
times higher than in people of Belgian origin. In people of Moroccan descent is
the risk four times higher.

Green supports this approach behind society's work. A large number
civil society organizations in formulating the Memorandum "Everyone's Voice Counts'
joint policy proposals which have been established in dialogue with people in
socially vulnerable conditions living. Green used this cross as
important input for the political program in anticipation of the 2014 elections
is slid to the front, in particular for the program hatch around
poverty reduction.

PROPOSALS
EVERYONE MUST HAVE SUFFICIENT FUNDS FOR
HUMANE LIVING.
1.

126

Each European employee earns at least a sufficiently high minimum wage. Provides the European Union
prosperity and opportunities. But not everyone benefits. Companies go where they
cheapest to produce: countries with the most attractive tax environment, low wages and weak
social legislation. That leads to another Member outdone with favorable conditions for large
firms that are not necessarily beneficial for employees and the public treasury. Social dumping within the EU

2.

3.

4.

5.

is countered by agreeing on minimum wage. This should provide a sufficient income
so that those who work never goes below the national poverty line. (E)
Sufficiently high minimum benefits and minimum wages. We pull in Belgium all the benefits above
the poverty line and make them permanent prosperity. To avoid conventional unemployment traps, there should be
a relationship between minimum wages and benefits in the order of 100 per cent (minimum) to 80
percent (minimum) or two thirds of the average wage. Other European countries by the European
Commission and European Parliament encouraged their social policies as well as those
to develop standards. (F, E)
Allowances lift children out of poverty. The family allowances are to transfer to the regional
governments used selectively. When social allowances considering the amount of household income that by the
poverty of families with children reduces considerably. (V, B)
A basic pension retrieves all elderly people out of poverty. There will be an absolute floor below us
pension system. This guarantees the right to a dignified old age for everyone. Any pension begins
counting from the poverty line and not from the nuleurogrens. Through a universal basic pension (which
is complemented by a premium per year worked) Green ensures that people beyond retirement
age do not end up below the poverty line. In 2013 it is about 1000 euros, except for whom no year
has been working and living together, which gets 750 euros. The basic pension you get based on citizenship, as in
Netherlands, and not on the basis of distance traveled career. The basic pension is a huge
administrative simplification. The means test on the income for the elderly (IGO)
is no longer necessary, just as the complex calculation of the minimum pension. (F)
There should be greater efforts and systems developed through which social rights
are assigned automatically, so no need to explicitly ask for it. That makes a social
testing is necessary.

TOO POOR MUNICIPALITIES HAVE TO PAY the living wage
6.

7.

The federal government guarantees the right to a living wage.
The living wage must enable people to integrate socially. Society needs people in it
support. Like all benefits is also the living wage above the poverty line.
The limited reimbursement of the living wage by the federal government to the CPAS is very unfair and
undermines solidarity. The municipalities with a concentration of people who are entitled to a living wage,
pay much more than the municipalities with an affluent population, both for their own contribution
income support and for the support of these people. Green argues for a 90 percent payment of the
income support by the federal government. (F)
The living wage is not unemployment.
Who receives the living wage can not be confined in a classic activation pathway. That
does not mean that the door to the labor market for people with a living wage is closed. People who have a
living wage received may be fully employed by for example using article
60 of the Social Welfare Act. Together with other partners (VDAB, second chance education, open school etc.) can
CPAS for people who receive a living wage for working out an appropriate path that their chances of long
maximizes term.
This also means that people with a living wage not be sued for in return
for the benefit community tasks to perform. When people are employed to work for the
government appreciates the government that effort as a full preliminary process to work. (V, B)

WORK REMAINS MAJOR DAM AGAINST A poverty trap.
8.

9.

127

Work provides protection against poverty and increase social inclusion.
Policies need more than ever committed to work for the most disadvantaged groups in the
society. Employment policies must focus on sustainable jobs for more people, so especially
people at the bottom of the labor market can earn an income from employment. In all European
countries must guarantee a minimum wage by working people escape poverty. You solve
poverty not by poor unemployed working poor. (V, B, F, E)
The abolition of the increased degression of unemployment benefits.
Everyone is entitled to a decent income. It can not be that those who are long-term unemployed, falls back on a
payment under the European poverty line. The gradual reduction in the payment of unemployment benefits for
long-term unemployed should be reduced. Indeed, that measure is mainly a shift
brought from the aid granted by the RVA to the CPAS. Job search does not work better if you are poor.

On the contrary, poverty reduces the opportunities for sustainable employment. The existing follow-up and
control of unemployed is large enough where necessary direct and sanction abuse. (F)
10. Tailor-made for people with a large distance to the labor market.
For people with a large distance to the labor market is a general support through
wage cost subsidies are often insufficient, and additional support is necessary to move to the
create employment. The policy must be supplemented with additional elements such as wage premiums
training and guidance in the workplace and an adaptation of the workplace.
For the most vulnerable groups is an important social and participatory policy to the forefront,
with sufficient resources for a more targeted guidance tailored in a local context. A strong
local government involvement is indispensable. Leaves inclusion policies for these people
From a broader view of participation in society and appreciates each person in his abilities.
Together with various work and welfare partners and through various forms of employment, training and volunteering
these people can experiment and learn, and to gradually remove barriers. Green indicates full
made to measure (such as procedures, according to the W-squared method or through work) a structural place in
job placement. (V, B)
11. All companies, persons with a distance to the labor employ.
The bespoke decree aims to promote the advancement of persons with a distance to the labor market, but
this only involves companies employing at least five disabled workers. Green believes that companies
which have a limited number of target group employees to work equally entitled to support as
companies that collectively employ disabled workers. Only in this way can be
target group employees are effectively integrated into the labor market. (V, B)
12. Who works with disabled workers must be able to operate sustainably.
Sheltered workshops have a structural place and the necessary stability for sustainable social
to undertake. (V, B)
13. Guidance for employers to fill long vacancies.
The paradox of the labor market which on the one hand many job seekers find a job and also provides many
vacancies are not filled, mainly currently being addressed by activating job seekers,
them to train and encourage vacancies to go in. This guidance can be improved. But also a
policy will be necessary, which activates the vacancies. Where necessary, the recruitment threshold should be lower
and / or should be intensively monitored candidates during a training period. Therefore, the working
employment agency a comprehensive approach for vacancies, similar to that for job seekers. By actively
to help with the implementation of long vacancies should target groups that are accessing the
labor market find it most difficult to be helped. (V, B)

GREEN TO A FAIR CHANCE TO IMMIGRANTS IN THE LABOUR MARKET.
DISCRIMINATION makes them especially vulnerable to poverty.
14. Bottleneck professions which a quantitative deficit are opened up their labor markets
for migrant workers from inside and outside Europe. A flexible procedure with fewer criteria and thresholds
than is currently the case, delivers this work permits.

15. The employment services are open to all employees. This is social fraud and exploitation
against. Who works in Belgium with a B permit (including Bulgarians, Romanians, Croats and
regularized through a contract of employment) has no right to employment. As a result they are in the
practice tied to one employer, or they fall prey to unscrupulous employers.
16. An operational 'safe box' allows for clandestine workers to undocumented migrants their
labor can assert and harrowing abuses and exploitation can sue. Green
calls for the inspection involved the implementation of procedures to work together. The control of
unacceptable working conditions and monitoring of residence, should be separated. A minimum of
Separate procedures should be provided for violations against labor law and violations of the
Residence Law.
17. We promote fair employment. The government sets an example in public services and
regulatory acts for the private sector. At all job levels, people with
migration background proportional to work. The government closes down result commitments and builds social and
diverstiteitsclausules with targets for procurement and grants. (F, V, B)
18. discrimination applies zero tolerance. Addressing discrimination in the labor market remains lax.
Sensitization is insufficient. Discrimination should also actively sought out and punished. This is possible by
practice tests to conduct and violation fining. The inspection services get more hands and teeth
to oversee the rules. Field tests are a very efficient system and have legal validity
128

get. Systematically carried out these tests. Companies are scored here only a first
once sensitized and warned a second time will follow inexorably sanctions. (F, V, B)
19. In societies where people take the word poverty is the focus on poverty-colored limited.
We support these organizations to reach even people in poverty with a migration background.
20. Green wants to support social work assistance to people of a different ethnic
improve descent. Researchers collide settled on a 'cultural responsibility model', where not
poverty, but above all cultural differences are seen as a cause of poverty. Complex situations
are then reduced to a cultural problem, for example, in terms of the more classical gender patterns, in
Instead of structural framed. CPAS and other welfare organizations are supported to work more diverse sensitive.

EQUAL EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES ARE JACK AGAINST SOCIAL EXCLUSION.
21.

22.
23.

24.

25.

26.

27.

An important choice that makes Green, is about the allocation of the education budget. Belgium brings up the
tail for his spending on primary and lower secondary education. For Green, the choice is clear: in order of
education again make an emancipation machine and to boost the well-being of students
we invest in priority in elementary education. Even better than the social inequality in later
age to drive close, we chose for investments in primary education.
That schools no longer be funded for teaching undocumented migrants, is
inhumane and counterproductive. We screw the measures of the Flemish Government back in this context.
We strive for a school whose composition reflects the local community. To a
achieving balanced composition school, we introduce a system of controlled freedom of choice.
Because equality in education are the responsibility of all schools, priority rules will not
longer optional, but mandatory for all schools. Urban or regional administration - linked
is the respective (and yet to be established) Local Consultation Platforms (LOP's) - provides the
registrations. Transparency, active admission and adequate legal protection are key
principles of the registration scheme. A new evaluation of the subscription, the securities are
it examined ethno-cultural minorities.
The reform of secondary education must be according to Green provide an answer to two persistent
Problems: (1) the cascade system in which students, parents and teachers think in terms of 'high
aim '(ASO) and move downstream (TSO and BSO) and (2) study the ability of our students. Green
going for an education system that effectively defers the study, where teachers will be better
supported and where students make more positive choices. Green believes in a major reform, with the
contribution and support of the educational field.
The current funding through the Equal Educational Opportunities Act (2002) does not go far enough social
inequality tackle. The current number of additional teaching periods (called "EOP") is much too
small to have a major impact. Especially in schools where social segregation runs high. Green advocates
for a distribution that provides exponentially more money for schools that face a
accumulation of care issues. That way there is extra staff to learning and language problems in small
classes to identify and remedy.
The objectives of the CLB can be clarified according to Green. An important
focus point is to give more priority to 'early detection'. In this way, a far-reaching
be achieved cooperation between education and health so that children and young families early
can be supported. This preventive approach is much more efficient than end-of-pipe measures
later age. CLB also given a stronger role in health prevention and parenting
(obesity, tooth decay, behavioral problems, substance abuse ...).
Green advocates for more progressive scholarships in compulsory education, depending on the real
parental income. The scholarships for the lowest incomes are increased. School allowances should
are automatically assigned by the Crossroads Bank for Social Security. There are already CPAS those families
with limited financial resources to support directly this way. This should be generalized. So
puts an end to the charm aspect and keep the pupils who are entitled to an allowance out in the cold
stand. Green is for the preservation of scholarship for students who are older than 18 years because it
crucial is that these students graduate or qualification of secondary education.

PREVENTION and debt DEBT TO POVERTY A
CREATE TEMPORARY PHENOMENON.

129

28. Avoid unnecessary build consumer debt can prevent poverty. We prohibit the
peddling of credit products to public and public places such as train stations,
metro stations, department stores and shopping arcades. This prohibition we suggest because of the many abuses
home and abroad. For the same reason we would also prohibit the commercial sale of loans
that required for the payment of a purchase in their own shop. (F)
29. We inform consumers about their rights and vulnerable consumers. Persons by a
deteriorating financial condition find it difficult to pay their loans, should in
their reminders actively highlight the opportunity that the law provides for (if necessary through the
justice of the peace) to obtain payment facilities.
30. Green wants to make at least as strong consumer rights on mortgage loans as at
consumer loans. Mortgage Loans usually have in fact a greater impact on the budget
consumers than consumer loans. Therefore it is logical:
•
financial institutions are required to for the calculation of the variable interest rate, as
initial reference index to include the most recent;
•
switching to a setting favorable to the consumer for any byproducts
no influence on the interest rate of the loan;
•
switching to a setting favorable to the consumer for the by-products of a
loan, has no influence on the interest rate of the loan at the original institution;
•
lenders associate byproducts to a mortgage loan, be obliged to also
cost for measuring by-products to be settled down to, instead of only the interest rate of
the loan. (B)
31. Green wants a full and regulated status of "credit intermediary". Following the
intermediaries in banking and investment services and insurance, we want all credit intermediaries
subject to mandatory and certified training so that they are able to provide complete and accurate
to provide information on their products to their customers. When the credit intermediary is a company
(eg a department store), we will logically impose the same obligations on training
employees who offer loans to customers. (B)
32. The debt counseling and mediation services faced with waiting lists. There will be a basic supply of
social debt by CAW and CPAS. This should go beyond a good repayment plan.
Debt counseling is also a question of restoring confidence, support, motivation and learning
budgeting. In return for their recognition of these services receive the necessary funding. (V, B, F)
33. In all welfare sectors sensitized for targeted and rapid referral to debt problems. (V,
B)
34. We change the article 1254 of the Civil Code so that the first payments on the principal and
not only be attributed to the interest. So we break the spiral of indebtedness
easier. There will also be an update of the list of non-attachable goods account
account of the needs of the whole family. (F)

A prosperous country WARRANT ALL RESIDENTS AND A HIGH-QUALITY
AFFORDABLE HOME.
35. The price of housing is mainly boosted by the scarcity and hence rising land prices. The
governments in this country contribute to this scarcity. They continue to sell land and heritage, often
short-term considerations, such as realizing a balanced budget for the following year. That is
not wise. At the moment there are grounds necessary to make (social) public projects finds
the same government no longer affordable land. When tax funds are invested in the
revaluation of a particular neighborhood, it is the speculators who buy homes and lands and with the
value of these investments to walk. A government that wants to conduct a genuine land development
must not sell land but acquire land. Green wants the regional authorities a rolling
Fund set up for local authorities enables a truly ground - to implement and property policy. (V, B)
36. The model of social housing we find very durable and also very selective. Green wants
funding for social housing reorient to support Community Land
Trusts. Based on their income and assets are approximately half a million Flemings eligible
for social housing, while every year only a multiple of 100 will be delivered. The system
is expensive and helps only a handful of people in affordable housing. Moreover, the added value resulting from
a possible (re) sale not return to the society but to the owner. Which passes over two
once through the checkout. Green wants to invest the resources of this very durable and very selective system
Community Land Trusts. (V)
130

37. Social make loans for a certain group of people to buy a pack practicable. Therefore wants Green
support social lending further. (V, B).
38. Due to the shortage of private rental housing is the price at which further private rental market. Meanwhile
walk waiting for more than five years, Green wants to introduce a maximum bill for rent. This
means that people who are entitled to social housing but do not get assigned by the current
shortage of social housing receive a housing allowance that bijpast difference between social rents and
private rental. Recently, there is a Flemish rent allowance for those who four years or longer waits for social housing.
It is not logical that people must first four years of staggering on the private rental market before they
are helped in their housing needs. Green wants to disconnect the right to housing benefit from waiting lists
for social housing and linked to income. (V, B)
39. Flanders will last ten years in the social real estate (SVK). Green is in favor of a
expansion of these SVK's. SVK's taking private rental accommodation in portfolio and lease it to tenants
eligible for social housing. In the 7000 homes that the SVK together in their
portfolio have, but they can not make a difference. Green wants to strengthen the SVK's inter
more conditions to include properties in its portfolio to relax and adapt to the
economic realities of the region. (V, B)
40. Green wants to establish a rental guarantee fund that acts concerning the rental guarantee the rights of
the landlord. If necessary, the Fund may also advance the deposit. The advantages are many: the landlord
people can no longer keep because they do not get together their guarantee, there will be a uniform treatment
of guarantees and the CPAS be relieved of a task which is not within their remit. Green wants
The system includes both social and private tenants, in the interests of equal treatment and a
better coordination. (V, B)

SPECIAL ATTENTION FOR HOME AND HOMELESSNESS
41. The prevention of homelessness begins with a fair housing policy (see above). Also wants Green
homelessness prevention through proper guidance and timely intervention by CPAS and CAWs to the
to prevent eviction of tenants. Also at the outflow from psychiatry, youth welfare and the
prisons there will be additional guidance. Flanders and Brussels negotiated agreements with CPAS to a
actorrol record in the fight against homelessness (V, B) and the federal government has sufficient project funding
allow for the social integration of homeless people (F).
42. Residential oriented solutions are the most effective in the fight against homelessness. Green wants to expand
The budget for 'Housing First'. Which provides housing for homeless and guidance as the best start for
a new life. (F)
43. Reception remains necessary. Green wants subsidizing day care centers reassessing to do away with
high daily rates and the wide variation in daily rates between care initiatives. Homeless people without papers
also gain access to the shelter. (V, B)
44. The claims in respect of vacant buildings no longer remains an empty shell. This law indicates
mayors the possibility of vacant housing units claiming to homeless people in under
to bring. Here we make an effective right of an easing of the procedure, closing the
loopholes and addressing the gaps in the law. The law must be regarded as living
an enforceable human right. Therefore, criminalizing squatting on vacant houses in the
question. (F)

ENERGY EFFICIENT LIVING REDUCES COST OF LIVING IN
SUSTAINABLE WAY
45. In particular, the bottom segment of the housing market, which partially overlaps with the rental market, in need of
revaluation and a specific approach. The renovation curdles there for years. Green wants for this extra segment
Make the effort and developing a more socially ecological program for total renovation. This is
also the best method to tackle the biggest cause of energy poverty. Central to this
program is a proactive counseling involving different agencies, such as CPAS and local
cooperating governments. In Flanders, approximately 150,000 homes would be in this program
recorded. For landlords and owners who join this program, we foresee increased
Premiums for total refurbishment, cheap loans, mentoring and financing in accordance with the third
payer system. Premiums are first high but decreasing thereafter. This program delivers triple
profit: it is social, it is good for the environment and creates jobs. (V, B)

131

46. ​​Progressive electricity tariffs: a social and ecological measures. By means of progressive
Rates for electricity saving consumers are rewarded firmly in their energy bill. Here comes the
first block pricing consistent with the basic consumption of a household. Above this base level is
progressive pricing. People who have electric heat a transitional arrangement whereby they are not in
system of progressive tariffs fall and received strong financial support for the replacement of their
electric heating and old, energy-guzzling appliances. We flank the new tariff
also a program for the renovation of the outdated housing stock which energetically bad
performs and where low-income people live. To fully play this progressive pricing,
we integrate the current subscription and other fixed costs in the price per kWh. In this way, has
consumers also represents a very simple and transparent benchmark for pricing of energy suppliers
comparing. (V, B)

HEALTH MAY MAKE NO DISTINCTION BETWEEN RICH AND ARM.
SHE IS THERE FOR EVERYONE WHO CARE NEEDS.
47. The health insurance ensures that everyone saves more than 25 years later and this by the
income to pay appropriate contribution to the care insurance scheme. If not you organize the solidarity within the family
but throughout society and the strongest shoulders bear the heaviest burden. Green wants the
contributions for health insurance are income-related, so strong shoulders heavier loads
wear. (V) We investigate the possibility of a health insurance Brussels in collaboration formula
between the Flemish and the French-speaking Community. (B)
48. More patients need to be unsuccessful in the subscription medicine. Since the patient must register with a
established practice or a center and need for consultations in the center no longer pay. That center
getting health insurance, a fixed amount per patient per year and no longer a fee per performance.
This financing has many advantages: it makes the first line accessible, even for disadvantaged groups, it makes
sure the doctor has more benefit to focusing on prevention and avoidance of disease, there are fewer unnecessary
performance.
49. The government actively supports the formation of low-threshold and multi-disciplinary health practices
on the first line. An outstanding example of this is the community health centers. The support consists of
a start-up budget for the centers, the provision of a project employee at the start
network it helps develop and / or financial encouragement to unite as doctors or
interpreter support for patients who do not speak Dutch.
50. The automatic application of the third-party payment for doctors and dentists, and eventually
to other care providers. Thanks to the third-party payment, people with a low income single
pay the personal contribution and they no longer serve the part that pays for the health service to be
for shooting. For those living on low incomes, this reduces the postponement of care or postponement
the purchase of medicines.
51. Home care and other non-medical care should be affordable for everyone. Green advocates a regulation
where the price of care is tailored to the capacity of the family and for a maximum bill
for home care. The latter means that expire own contributions as soon as a family a certain
maximum paid by private contributions. (V, B)
52. There must be greater investment in mental health centers (CGG) so that the
Waiting lists can be eliminated. In addition, psychotherapy may also be outside the CGG
be reimbursed by health insurance. Because a lot of people living in poverty suffer from
mental health problems. The daily stress of living in poverty is one of the causes.
53. We abolish the maintenance obligation for elderly. Children for the maintenance obligation
their dependents, elderly parents today makes for great injustices. Goes one CPAS
aid back, not the other. Moreover, this often causes severe tensions within families. Also
many older people feel uncomfortable 'dependents' to be covered by their children. Green wants
abolition of the maintenance obligation for elderly unless people themselves in a situation of
inability brought by gifts to their children. Together with a reinforcement of the
health insurance and care provision is to ensure a quality and affordable care a
government task. (F)
54. Green will make the nursing home bill paid by higher premiums of health insurance. Now each will receive
nursing home residents a premium of 130 euros per month. This premium does not even cover 10% of the bill. This
premium needs to be raised so that it is sufficiently large to pay part of the nursing home bill. (V)
55. In the context of the sixth state reform, the resources of the Allowance for Assistance to
Aged (APA), this is an additional charge for heavy dependents aged over 65 with a low
132

income. In Flanders we integrate these resources in the Flemish Care Insurance (V) and enter the Brussels
Common Community this task (B). There will be a simple, transparent and
universal indicator instrument inschaalt the need for care for people. (V, B)

133

BETTER EDUCATION FOR
EVERY CHILD
EDUCATION
VISION
Education is much more than achieving school results. It is a basic raw material for
each person to form an identity, to develop their full potential and a
quality life to build up an independent and inclusive manner. Education is in
the center of the sustainable society that Green has in mind.

Our education enjoys much trust among the population, but in recent years we have seen a
downturn. There is a global deterioration in quality, for both stronger and weaker for
students. The unequal social background has a strong impact on learning outcomes,
and the difference in quality between schools is unacceptable. Education is too little
channel to rise on the social ladder it should be. That almost one in seven pupils
secondary education ends with no qualifications, Flemish education is unworthy. The
declining quality and capacity and infrastructure problems of recent years
a striking illustration of years of underfunding of our education. The
share of spending on education has declined in recent years in relation to our
wealth, our gross regional product.

Now education is the society of the future. Right now a better education
realize for all students and teachers is the best investment for our
society. To work on together there, we want to provide answers to a long
series of challenges.

PROPOSALS
INVESTING IN EDUCATION IS SUSTAINABLE AND SOCIAL
1.

2.

3.

134

Education should be another priority on the political agenda. We want our education investment
equate with the countries of the European leaders. There is a broad consensus that society
momentum with investment in quality education. For one-time public investments with a major,
positive social value, such as school infrastructure, testifies of common sense to this,
if necessary, if need be let through debt financing expired, as long as the benefits exceed the costs.
A second important choice that makes Green, is about the allocation of the education budget. Belgium dangles
the tail for his expenses for basic and lower secondary education. For Green, the choice crystal clear: to
Education again to make an emancipation machine and to boost the well-being of students
we invest in priority in elementary education. Even better than the social inequality in later life
close to drive, we chose for investments in primary education.
The competition between education providers and educational networks should be curtailed
are laid. It is the local and supra-local competition lying to a large extent on the basis
inequality and the fragmented use of public money. Several proposals contain concrete
alternatives in response to the useless competition. Driven by financing based on
pupil characteristics, a more controlled school choice, more efficient educational guidance,
creation of an autonomous middle school and a compulsory subject in every school ideology: they are

ambitious but realistic proposals which can provide answers to a number of pressing
education issues.

EVERY CHILD HAS THE RIGHT TO A GOOD SCHOOL, NEAR HOUSE
The best government is investing more in the early years of children. Green is working towards a comprehensive care and
curriculum that integrates offered at school.
4. At this time, the transition between child care and kindergarten much too abrupt. We advocate a
smooth transition from small groups of toddlers with a greater emphasis on care in the first years of the
nursery education, to a gradually larger group with more autonomy and a greater emphasis on
pedagogic.
5. We provide more care for children in the early stages of life (about 1 to 3 years). Childcare
The community school is complementary to existing (in) formal initiatives, but the offer must be sufficiently large,
and it must be affordable so that every child has access to quality child care. Especially in disadvantaged
and child-rich urban neighborhoods, there is a need for a targeted investment.
6. To reduce the barriers between the school and the nursery, we broaden the range of reception and
hummel classes. These classes are designed for toddlers (about 2.5 to 3 years) and are an
preparatory year where adequate rest and appropriate infrastructure. For engagement with the neighborhood
possible, we are strongly committed to the involvement and responsibility of parents.
7. The process concerns and learn is in line with the community school. Caring for young children is organized
within the context of a school - without getting schools - or in close cooperation with related
initiatives.
8. A quality preschool program can only when we get rid of the overcrowded kindergartens.
By the increased participation in nursery education there is need for a quantitative boost. Entry Classes
have a maximum of 12 children and the funding of kindergartens is equated with the lower
education.
9. It is important for the school children to be a regular participation in the
nursery education to stimulate. In collaboration with external partners such Schoolopbouwwerk all
parents of children who reach the age of three years and still do not attend school contacted personally
about the benefits of regular participation in early childhood education. Compulsory education with full-time
presence is set to 5 years.
10. We are committed to a school whose composition reflects the local community. To a
achieving balanced composition school, we introduce a system of controlled freedom of choice.
Because equality in education are the responsibility of schools, rights will no longer
are voluntary, but mandatory for all schools. Urban or regional administration - coupled
the respective (and yet to be established) Local Consultation Platforms (LOP's) - handles the registrations.
Transparency, active admission and adequate legal protection are the key principles of the
registration scheme. A new evaluation of the registration fee will be assessed its effects on ethnic minorities.

11. One of the aims of education is to encourage young people to engagement. Students who
actively committed to the school might be more appreciated. In addition, there is, of course, the
student council. Students sleep over issues such as school infrastructure, examination schedules, quality
of the school and the layout of the school day. The school would be for a number of themes best advice required
inquire with the students. If the board does not follow the advice of the student council, she has that decision
motivate. Compulsory advice is sought from students related to citizenship.
12. For the well-being, learning and the learning opportunities of children is a powerful collaboration between
the parent and the school is essential. The infrastructure of the school is opened, even after school hours,
so the neighborhood and the environment as much as possible in the school. By strongly on the
parental involvement, can get the school more intertwined with the neighborhood.
13. Green advocates strongly developed cross-network cooperation of the municipal level and
local regions. The Local Consultation Platforms (LOP) are given a strengthened mandate and a broader
power to fulfill this role. The number of LOP regions is extended to the full
educational field to cover.

STRONG MEASURES TO EQUAL EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES FOR ALL CHILDREN
WHERE TO MAKE

135

14. The current funding through the Equal Educational Opportunities Act (2002) does not go far enough to the social
inequality tackle. The current number of additional teaching periods (called "SES hours) is much too
small to have a major impact, particularly in schools where social segregation runs high. Green advocates
for a distribution that provides exponentially more money for schools that face a
accumulation of care issues. That way there is extra staff to learning and language problems in small
classes to identify and remedy.
15. The modalities for the conduct of a school policy on equal educational opportunities and health care policy
be clearly agreed with schools receiving extra funding. More spending freedom over budget
goes hand in hand with reporting on the policy. The inspectorate will express
command to detect deprivation mechanisms in schools and ask them to be at their school policy
send.
16. Green advocates structural bridges between social welfare, youth and education sector. Techniques from the
welfare and youth protection can be applied generalized in all forms of education. So
The restorative can work with children and young people achieve good results in tackling truancy.
17. We conduct an electronic student file for each pupil from the age of 3 years. The
student dossier brings together the key elements of the development of the pupil map. It improves
Communication between the schools where the student goes to school. The development dossier should also provide
an intensive communication between teacher and student to have a positive orientation, based on
support interests of the child. When young people differ from the regular educational process, it is
important that the prior learning have a place in the student file.
Two aspects require special attention when the education in consultation with children and
students will become clearer what are the modalities of such a system: the issue of protection
of personal data and the embankment of the risks of stereotyping and stigmatization of students. A
student file must insightful, organized and always accessible to the student. A student's file
an extra effort from the teacher. This should also be taken into consideration in the scaling of the
workload of the teacher. The objectives of the CLB can clearly formulated Green
be. An important point here is to give more priority to 'early detection'. In this way, one may
extensive collaboration between education and welfare are implemented so that children and young families
can be supported early. This preventive approach is much more efficient than end-of-pipe measures
later age. CLB also given a stronger role in health prevention and parenting
(obesity, tooth decay, behavioral problems, substance abuse ...).

COST AT SCHOOL
18. Since 2008 primary schools with a maximum invoice. This provides a strong incentive for schools
to devise a cost-conscious school policy. The maximum bill ensures that schools less
easy financial barriers can impose. The cost structure of a school after all the Kindles
competition between schools of the same region. School trips, especially overnight school trips continue
For many students too expensive. Still, they have an important pedagogical value because their students
essential skills and experience and apply. Schools with many SES students extra
receive support to organize school trips. In secondary education, the school fees can be high
rise, though it varies very much between and within disciplines. Vocational education and training
from the arts bring higher costs with them. All secondary schools focusing on more
cost awareness, and directions that specific measures are taken much extra cost. Special
attention should be given to a correct and transparent contribution. The cost of a study may
students do not exclude.
19. Green advocates for more progressive scholarships in compulsory education, depending on the real
parental income. The scholarships for the lowest incomes are increased, and the school allowances
are automatically assigned by the Crossroads Bank for Social Security. There are already CPAS which
families with limited financial resources to support directly this way. This has to be generalized
be. This put an end to the charm aspect and keep the pupils who are entitled to an allowance not
out in the cold. Green is for the preservation of scholarship for students who are older than 18 years because
it is critical that these students graduate or qualification of secondary education.

TREATMENT OF DIVERSITY
20. Parents and pupils with a migration history of children growing up in poverty and people with
Guests are often - unconsciously and often implicit - approached in a stereotyped way. The (continuing) education
136

and guidance of teachers will pay more attention to the background of all students and to
the ability of teachers to live in this view. Subject contents will be broadened
with an eye for interculturalisation, socio-economic disparities and changes in family situations. Detect the
and dealing with poverty must also be thoroughly covered.
21. The Government supports schools in the implementation of reasonable accommodation for persons at school
with a disability or reasonable allowances for religious minorities. If they do not
entail disproportionate burden on the school organization, have negotiated an added value adjustments for
a successful coexistence at school.
22. Green is against the ban on religious signs at school. We are in favor of an initiative
which is based on free choice, with some clear conditions be established to intervene in
Any undue pressure.
23. Green is for the introduction of a eenheidsvak citizenship, philosophy and ideology "in both the
free as in public education, with an equivalent of 2 hours per week during the compulsory schooling age. With this box
we want to make more space for issues related to citizenship, moral
responsibility, the place of ideologies in our society and our core values
freedom, equality, tolerance and democracy.

NEWCOMERS
24. In secondary education Reception classes are organized today for newcomers (OKAN). By
the increasing number of very young newcomers, we advocate the establishment of full-fledged
Reception classes for children under twelve. Green is for a system where foreign language students
enroll in their own school, but with the OKAN hours of a number of schools in the same area
cross-network are merged. As part of the reception classes for foreign language
newcomers coming routes adapted for Roma children.
25. Improved transition to mainstream education can by flexibility and bridging, where more
combinations from mainstream and OKAN education possible. We also call for a better registration and
tracking system so that a file containing relevant data with the newcomer travels when he or she
school changes. Finally, we argue for a better aftercare for ex-graders welcome. A few extra hours
support per week throughout the school career is not a luxury.
26. Undocumented children and children of asylum seekers are vulnerable because of their residency status. This
requires an appropriate policy. All schools write children with a precarious residence status in and get
receive the necessary support. For these children it is essential to improve communication between the schools
to improve and promote the transfer of information. The individual file plays for Green this one
key.
27. Minor asylum seekers being expelled must be allowed to finish their education.
Young people who have a diploma, after all, are better equipped in their home country a
future build out. In consultation with the communities, the federal government is working out an arrangement under
what conditions the residence of young people - and possibly their families - can be temporarily
extended.

WIDE SCHOOLS GIVE ALL CHANCES TO ALL CHILDREN
Green wants our schools create community schools. The community school is aiming for more after being in school and wants
the economic focus of our education more balance with a broader life-forming
objective.
The community school in the best interests of the child and the diversity of children really central. Hence the
advocacy for quality after-school care, extra care and counseling, extracurricular activities and a
broad view on talents of children.
Active cultural and sporting experience to take a crucial place in the community school. The school works closely
along with art education, academies, cultural centers, associations and local artists. Also
sports associations and clubs to find their place at school. More attention to a healthy and sporty
lifestyle is important, because it also provides an answer to the lack of motivation and tiredness with school
early school as a result.
Technology must be part of the core curriculum of all young people, as a minimum is required to
function in the society of tomorrow. Central is not the teaching of technical-practical
skills, but the development of the technical thoughts and actions, linked to and integrated into

137

other areas of learning. This teaches children and young people to think up solutions to somewhat accurately
analyze and to try things out.
Also education on sustainable development, around nonviolence and living together in a
super-diverse society be given a prominent place in the community school. The education prepares young people
for living together in an ever evolving and changing society, with tendencies that sometimes
evoke resistance. Children learn to deal with the limited capacity of the earth, they learn to go
with uncertainties, emotions and resistances. They actively learn about diversity,
differences in beliefs. Schools prepare young people to play an active role in a sustainable and
multicultural community. We are also focusing on peace education and the transfer of knowledge and
commemoration of the Holocaust in our schools.
To strengthen cooperation between education, health and leisure is structurally embedded, Green is working towards a
Decree Community School. It offers tools and financial incentives for local authorities,
school boards and to involve all stakeholders in the development of the community school. A local environmental analysis
and a profile screening of the students are the basis for the individual interpretation of each community school in order to maximize
to respond to the local needs and context. Because of their expertise in the field of welfare and leisure,
fulfill local authorities and Local Consultation Platforms (LOP's) a key role as facilitators of the broad
schools.
Sport and education are inextricably linked and mutually reinforcing. Sport and exercise is fun
to do, it stimulates the motor and social skills and promotes learning. Also sport
and exercise contribute to greater involvement in the school. A young learned, active lifestyle can
also prevent and bring big health benefits overweight. And by many children to all young
learn about different sports, talent comes to light. We support schools to the
playground provide plenty of exercise and sports ability. The Flemish government encourages
municipalities to take on a management role. Cooperation between schools and sports organizations, we care
for more sport and exercise opportunities in and around the school. By also afterschool and
involve community sports initiatives, we can also reach young people who tend to exercise less
club. We make extra efforts for adolescents because relatively many students in this group that did not occur
sports.

INCLUSIVE EDUCATION
The teams of teachers in special education in Flanders deliver high quality. The absence of
similar forms of support in mainstream schools, however, ensures that many underprivileged children
being unnecessarily referred for special education. Mainstream primary education does not
responsibility for these children or they can not record because of lack of resources.
28. Green calls a decree anchoring a new learning support framework with adequate space for inclusive
education. We call for a proper and unambiguous implementation of the right.
29. The M-decree or decree with measures for pupils with special educational needs is inadequate.
The right to inclusive education is being eroded and lacking levers to support the
enabling teachers and counselors. Green proposes to give schools a basic funding
for the development of inclusive education and pathways to converge over time to a system of
"Backpack funding. This backpack would be the necessary resources for additional support
pupil should contain a handicap, regardless of education or education choice.
30. The proportion of all children in Flanders in special education (BO) sits, is very high. The youngest
ten years the number of children referred after kindergarten doubled. We advocate
better interaction between mainstream and special education. For children who represent only a
short period of stay in special education, follow routes that are created by the band
original school maintained so that they can re-enroll without difficulty when there
ready.
31. Children and youth in special education are a vulnerable group. In addition to physical or mental and
psychological barriers, there are often social barriers that make them extra, intensive
need support. In addition, it is necessary that there is a good co-operation is achieved
between justice, welfare and education both in terms of structures and information flow. For example, there may be
customized care be provided for these children.
32. Green argues for flexible schooling for children with chronic illness. A small group of students
asks for a better transition between school, hospital and home. Green requires an extension of the
resources for temporary home. In addition, Green wants to promote a relaxation of the

138

mileage restriction so that children, even in secondary education, can more free choice of education
have.

MORE AND BETTER SUPPORT STAFF FOR OUR TEACHERS
Inspiring, well-trained teachers are the engine of a good education. They give confidence, offer
safety and motivate. The impact of the teacher is very large, and the social role they play today
enormous. Although the application of social status have lost confidence in our teachers
still very large. To continue to achieve these important social role, it should
teaching profession be redrawn.
The teaching assignment is a school assignment. We advocate greater task and function differentiation by
teaching assignment to replace a school assignment. This allows the teacher receives a set of tasks within the
school, whose teaching is the most important. Because the job description of the teacher is much broader
than just teaching, Green proposes to no longer teaching hours from pressing the assignment of teachers, but in
percent. This allows more variety is possible in the tasks, and can new jobs, such as
mentoring young teachers, administrative work, commitment to the department, student guidance,
supervising afternoon activities at school, ... be better exploited.
Green proposes to re-enter for the replacement pool. Teachers are given a school assignment on a
anchor school, but may be asked to do at other schools replacements, with a maximum of
three schools between which is suspended. After two years of operation in the replacement pole with positive
evaluations, the teacher concerned is appointed for an indefinite period.
Laws and regulations in education provide irritating pressure. Teachers have many tasks
execution of which they do not see results, such as draft documents, where they get no feedback.
Green wants controls the government for new regulations or new regulations no irritating pressure
cause. We start with a 'load monitor' as hotline. There is also a central
data system developed so that schools only need to transmit data once. Inspection and
educational guidance are instructed to focus more in future on the core of the
teacher.
Differentiated teaching teams and attract lateral entrants. In primary education, there is need for
developed teaching teams that leave room for nursery (st) ers with a short training and
teachers with a master's degree in teaching. Green thinks that a graduate degree and a bachelor
childcare can contribute to greater professionalisation of the pre-school program. In secondary
education multidisciplinary teams can be made up by attracting more lateral entrants. Green
requires an adjustment of the compensation rule for shorter working hours for people from other sectors
encourage them to take on a limited role in education. Companies with a limited employees
teaching assignment let record will be rewarded with lower labor costs. Seniority outside
education for 100% not count, so for those with experience outside the education attractive
the step towards the teaching profession.
Teachers can count on professionals from other sectors. The relationship between the teacher and his or
her students improve when the management and the team of teachers are intertwined with a broader network
Partners in the neighborhood of the school. This fits within the principles of the community school. Embedding in the
neighborhood helps to have a professionals from other sectors role in the operation of the school:
social workers, mediators, social workers, neighborhood and community workers.
Current and future educational practice requires attention to educational innovation in the
teacher training. More didactic innovation, more attention to differentiation and diversity at school. It also
theme 'gender' is explicitly included in teacher training and in-service training initiatives. Green wants
also take initiatives for broader and more intensive cooperation between the training and the
schools. This has additional benefits: teacher educators gain a more realistic understanding of the
terrain, while the teachers strengthen their expertise. Teacher training programs also play an important role
to eliminate discrimination in work placements. Backed by the Minister of Education close teacher training
agreements with the field of action in order to avoid the trainees are refused.
Security for the temporary teacher. One in five teachers is not permanent appointment. Knitting some teachers
one temporary contract to another. This "temporary" teachers should be given a better status. Green
finds that every teacher interim after one or more contracts with a total of 5 months, and a positive
Evaluation should be given a school assignment for a limited period until the end of that school year. Around the
substitute teacher to give more certainty now is for an absence lasting more than one year
take, for example, by posting, one fixed entry point on September 1st. If the teacher is
139

Replacing wants to use this entry point, it must be here by 30 June of giving,
then the substitute teacher will be notified immediately. Secondment maintaining permanent appointment
is limited in time.
The number of days that one must have worked for a continuous period of temporary appointment (Tadd)
eligibility is reduced from 720 to 480 days spread over three years, in any network. The
She must have spent the last 120 days entirely within the school or the school group where he or
it seeks Tadd and after that period received a positive evaluation. Teachers
Tadd get an entitlement to holiday pay, parental leave and maternity leave under full
the same conditions as teachers with a permanent appointment. The aim is for these rights
do similarly apply to teachers on a temporary contract with no Tadd, independent
of reassignment.
Practice-training course for starters. We are thus seeking to train two groups of starters
for education. Firstly, young graduate masters who initially were not going in the
education steps. The second target group are the so-called lateral entrants, who with their experience
step towards the teaching profession. The existing LIO trajectory (Teacher in Training) is successful
evaluated, and can be a model for the further expansion of the practical training provision.
A statute for the novice teacher and a senior status. The junior teacher is entitled to
(collective and individual) initial guidance on a minimum number of hours and additional parallel
training opportunities. Parallel to the status of senior teacher introduced. Who teacher is 10 years
and meets certain objective criteria, can access a feature with additional pedagogical
responsibilities and mandate fee. Part of the contract is explicit guidance
Trainees and junior teachers in the form of mentoring hours, we re-enter. We advocate more
group coaching, involving both novice and experienced teachers.
Learning communities among teachers should be encouraged extra. Green also calls for more
exchanges of teachers between schools at home and abroad, and between schools in different
communities.
The role and the financing of educational and counseling services will be more focused on core business
Education: supporting teachers and CLB teams in the workplace. Green also advocates
more cooperation between the networks. We realize efficiency gains and better supervision by on
various fields working together. We think of the preparation of curricula and teaching equipment,
support for beginning teachers and some aspects of the training of managers and
supervisors.
Green advocates a project fund for applied educational research. 'Evidence-based' work
education means that teaching practice is based on research. Teachers, counselors and principals are
in their daily practice supported by research results. Form of applied research - in
collaboration with researchers and educational guidance - support the teacher in the perfection
his mastery.
All teachers have an annual evaluation and a classroom visit. The government awards the parameters
for the evaluation. Evaluation by students as a tool of the teacher should become established. The
call has been directed in the first place to improve the functioning within the school. When the
teacher judged unsatisfactory, the person concerned shall, together with the Management Board a comprehensive work plan
improvement. After two consecutive failures a solution is sought in dialogue, whether or not
within the school.
Give confidence to teachers means that they have a stronger role in the central
consultative bodies (Board of Directors and / or pedagogical council). This means (1) a democratic and comprehensive
representation of teachers in the Board of Directors and (2) good and effective consultation
communication to all teachers.
More appreciation for directors. The policymaking capacity of school management should be strengthened.
The working conditions of managers today are substandard. Green sees two priorities. First, it will
reduced administrative burden the work of the director a lot more attractive through additional staff
this recruit. So the directors can focus again on the educational project of their
school and coaching their team of teachers. Especially in primary schools there is an urgent additional
administrative support necessary. Secondly the director's salary must be increased. This
can be an important stimulus to find more prospective directors.

SECONDARY EDUCATION REFORM DESERVES BETTER

140

The reform of secondary education must be according to Green to respond to four major challenges: (1)
stopping the waterfall where students, parents and teachers think in terms of 'aim high' (ASO) and
'descend' (TSO and BSO), (2) a subsequent school choice that will make young people more for what they choose well
can and like to do, (3) the reduction of young people who leave school without a diploma and (4) a general
quality improvement for all pupils. Going Green for an education system that effectively postpones the study,
where teachers are better supported and where students make more positive choices. Green believes in a large
reform, with input and support from the educational field. The master plan adopted by the current government
Green is largely inadequate: it offers no solutions to the existing problems and for schools is the
let freedom to join or not. The result will be that schools will compete with each other by the old or
new model to offer. The door is further opened to put a teaching at different speeds.
33. Green will clearly defined outlines for all schools. Within the limits imposed by the government
gives schools autonomy, freedom and confidence to give substance to its own educational project.
34. Green wants a structural reform with a comprehensive first degree, effectively postponing the study (better
choose later, later choose better) and the elimination of barriers between the ASO, TSO and BSO.
35. Teachers, students and parents are explicitly involved in the reform and deployment of the
plans.
36. The reform should ensure that all students are no better off. There is a need for greater customization and
individual tutoring of students (internal class differentiation). So no straitjacket whereby everyone
the same program will, but at the end of the middle school the student is still in all directions.
Differentiation is necessary, as long as it is not determinant, and the study did not bring forward.
37. The best way to set out the study is the establishment of autonomous middle schools, which provide
a gradual transition between primary and secondary education. Therefore we evolve long-term
a three-tier structure of education: four years of primary education, four years of middle school and four years of secondary. In the
middle school students get a limited number of specialist teachers. They build a relationship of trust with
teachers, but more freedom compared to primary education.
38. It is crucial to the further professionalisation of the teaching profession and teacher education. Reform
secondary education and the reform of the teacher career are inextricably linked (see
Section teaching profession).
39. Green is a thinning of the courses on offer in secondary education. The reduction of the
study is needed to make the offer more transparent and to offer more quality in to
focus.

GOING TO SCHOOL FATIGUE AND EARLY SCHOOL
40. A graduation qualification for every school leaver - even if it was not completely normal curriculum
finished - and the valorisation of prior learning.
41. Green is for a financial reward of schools that can provide excellent results for skipping
to counteract their students. The inspectorate thereby given the task to screen the policy.
42. A number of measures are best focused on a target group of early school leavers little
delayed and for which the qualification time is already in sight.
43. Timeout projects - even in primary schools - are needed more than ever. We also want to innovate with
new forms of 'learning and working' which can focus specifically on school without qualifications. We
get our inspiration from the Danish "production schools" that the development of professional, social and
promote personal skills through strong personal support and participation of small-scale
production and workshops.
NEW RECIPES FOR DUTCH LANGUAGE SCHOOL AND A MULTILINGUAL
FORMATION
Knowledge of Dutch is essential, both language skills and literacy, the school career and the future
development opportunities. The outflow of young people without qualifications is unacceptably high. Language in this process is often one of the
barriers. Since the arrival of the first migratory children's education takes the assignment to heart to foreign
Students help to develop Dutch language skills. Numerous initiatives have been taken and large groups
Teachers have worked with great commitment to reduce the language disadvantage of foreign language students.
Despite the many efforts of all stakeholders - government, schools, parents and students - have certain
groups of students still face a deficient language skills.
44. Green is in favor of modern language teaching practice whereby early as kindergarten
playfully and customized methodologies, language sensitivity is imparted. There will be more emphasis
141 45.
46.
47.
48.
49.
50.
51.
52.
lie on the implicit learning of Dutch. This approach fits in with the community school where formal
education, non-formal education and informal learning are well matched. This, according to Green
essential to prepare children and youth for life in contemporary society.
Otherwise speaking pupils who need it, get extra support for Dutch, with more emphasis
impose language in each box. At appropriate times these students are actively supported in learning
school of language and the processing of material. For foreign language students who need it, there is the
possibility after school hours to follow Dutch language stimulation activities. This playful activities
continue on the school so that the threshold in order to take part is low.
To strengthen the support of foreign children at home and the parents' involvement with the
school to ensure a wide school free evening classes Dutch and matching support
at the school for parents who do not speak. This support focuses on life inside
the school and ensures that parents can home more actively engaged in the support of their children.
Green is not in favor of language tests that reflect the explicit language knowledge, but chooses
additional language programs with a prominent place for implicit learning for young children and for
parents who wish it. In community schools build the leather stores from local dishes to the model
Dutch schools.
We want more value the knowledge of other languages ​​in education. A flexible language policy regarding
the parents can also do wonders. The official language is always the starting point, and parents may
positive attitude are expected across that language. Conversely, a positive attitude can from school
bridges explain to foreign parents.
To support schools in the development of language policies and the legal obstacles to
works Green will present a decree to allow multilingual learning. Taking into account the
experiences at home and abroad Decree Multilingual Learning provides a number of essential
constraints such as the status of teachers and the need to embed these projects in a
language policy in schools. The decree creates a framework to allow various forms of language learning, each
other criteria and conditions. Experience has shown that combinations of models are equally possible. Provide
schools the responsibility to make the choice in consultation with the parents for a model
has been working according to the situation.
Schools work on language awareness. The teacher - who does not need to be multilingual - uses
of the languages ​​present in the classroom at singing songs, when counting and so on. Language Awareness makes
pupils vulnerable to a multitude of languages ​​and brings a positive attitude towards this cause languages.
One of the models where Green wants to give more support is CLIL (Content and Language Integrated Learning)
where students in elementary and secondary education to get a job in a foreign language, or fully developed
immersion programs. Upon immersion of education, a part of the total weekly classes in the package
French offered. The new scheme worked out by the Flemish government is imperfect, because it
part of the curriculum that can be taught in another language is too limited.
Another model to improve the knowledge of French is an initiation into French, which starts from the
First grade. From the third year will be speaking, reading and writing are taught in French.
Green advocates more school trips across language borders. Under the guidance of French-speaking teachers are
the students immersed in a language immersion. An initiation English is available from the middle school, where
attention should be given to writing, speaking and reading English. Exchanges of teachers
to facilitate between the different linguistic communities in Belgium, a co-operation agreement
concluded between the Flemish, French and German Community. For the teaching of languages ​​other than the
country languages ​​involvement of native speakers can also be an added value.
AMBITIOUS AND REALISTIC accelerated school
Between 2005 and 2050 the population of Flanders will increase by 14%. Especially in Brussels and in the central cities will
rejuvenation of the population will be felt and will explode the number of schoolchildren. And the shortage of quality
school infrastructure is already structurally. But the problem of "increasing capacity" is about more than
inadequate physical space alone. Schools that provide a healthy environment, promote learning and save
while energy, raw materials and future expenditure. Schools need appropriate infrastructure
for children with special accompaniment, support and care questions. Moreover toddlers can sometimes inadequate
rest, they sit in overcrowded classes and in buildings that are not adapted to the educational needs of today.
Green leaves from a sustainable, long-term vision of schools and seeks flexible, integrated
infrastructure - according to the principle of community schools - which both education and supporting society.
53. Along with education providers we are calling for a structural increase in the ordinary
investment budget for school construction. An investment program set up by the Flemish
142 54.
55.
56.
57.
58.
59.
60.
61.
government and local authorities (sometimes in cooperation with the private sector) will eventually result
in a high efficiency.
Through the 'Green New Deal fund is savings of Belgian households invested in
school construction. Through government bank can be permanently invested in school construction. Deliver these investments
higher returns than savings accounts can offer. The return on these investments is higher than
a savings book.
The need for capacity in the capital is huge. The school building in Brussels needs a
overarching approach. Green calls for a structural dialogue between the French, the
Flemish and European education in order to solve the capacity issue from a shared
responsibility.
Mixed-use and mixed financing. Green believes that mixed use of space provides many opportunities.
The integration of the various functions is not only a pedagogical and practical expedient, it is economically
a responsible approach. From the perspective of the sponsor means a fundamentally different
approach. Optimum utilization and widely used means more cooperation between sectors and
policy areas work together on integrated school building. Cooperation with welfare sectors,
leisure, culture and sport are obvious and already have a number of applications. In addition, a
interaction between education and health sector can provide new forms of financing. Green advocates
for projects that have been devised to take from the community school concept in the 'shortened
procedures.
The key to the success of a community school, where the infrastructure is optimally utilized by
different agencies, is the concierge. This opens up a multitude of opportunities for day and evening classes, flexible
use of the gym hall through the neighborhood or a society where communion parties and baby showers continue in
the school…. Entering re concierges must be negotiable.
The gigantic PPP DBFM operation of the Flemish government - which a private partner in exchange for a
annual fee, the school designs, constructs, finances and maintains - has turned into a financial
tomcat. A replay of the DBFM project is excluded for Green. Learning experiences at home and abroad
that small and locally based PPP projects would create additional value. It must be
area-development, clearly defined and a clear aim. They may be regular (small)
renovation and construction projects at schools or medium sized multipurpose Lodging in
function of a broader area being worked on. This may involve total projects, which do not stop at the
School Walls: playgrounds, lighting fixture, benches, greenery, parking lots, houses or other
public buildings. There are new forms of cooperation, as with other sectors such as
welfare, sport, housing and cultural cooperation.
Schools can innovate through third party financing. It is a form of leasing, which allows for a
value and paving the way for innovative interventions (esp. in the area of ​​energy). A third party will
For example, isolating the school building, installing a heat pump or renew the lighting.
Costs and expenses are borne by the third party while the school pays for the energy (electricity
and / or heat) produced by the investor and delivered. Next to the comfort gain reaps the school
within the foreseeable future, the benefits of reduced energy bills. In some cases, this approach offers
a more interesting prospect than waiting for regular resources.
The European Directive on the Energy Performance of Buildings place for school administrators
ambitious goals. The planned resources remain earmarked for this objective stepwise
can take. Since coloring agents allows to stabbing policy spearheads, Green advocates
an adjustment. Where the focus earlier was on roof insulation and glazing, it is necessary according to Green to form
bio-ecological building to let more proceed: heat pumps, new lighting systems and
bio-ecological techniques for clean air. A healthy school environment also means that no GSMmasten be implanted in the vicinity of the school.
Local governments play a key role working across the networks of school infrastructure. It is about
the educational organization, the curriculum, location, demographic structure, typologies
buildings, urban developments, wishes of parents, public transport and so on. Green advocates
sure to bring together as much data to define possible scenarios and priorities
a long-term plan.
DEMOCRATISATION ROBUST POLICY FOR HIGHER EDUCATION
Flanders is still a lot of talent untouched. The gap in participation rates in higher education
between different social groups does not reduce. Young people with a low socio-economic background during
143 their educational career tremendously vulnerable. Immigrant youths flow far too few to higher education,
although before that they have the capacity. Green advocates a robust democratization policy.
62. The Flemish Government, in collaboration with universities and colleges an action plan to the higher
democratize education with concrete targets and achievable goals. Within this Action Plan is over
more attention to diversity in higher education: systems, coaching, tutoring, career counseling,
reorientation through cross-institutional counseling, remedial courses and a
sanctioning anti-discrimination policies in an accessible complaints body be concrete proposals
herein working out.
63. Democratization support financially. Green calls for the recruitment and promotion of young people whose
parents no higher education followed is structurally embedded in the institution financing. We use
is objective and cross-institutional indicators that were developed for the funds from the
to properly distribute encouragement fund.
64. The high dropout rates indicate that many students choose higher education is not among them
fits. Green advocates the introduction of a 'study compass "that helps students navigate the
educational landscape. To allow students time to make their choice this orientation will be set up in
the fifth year of secondary education. The study compass assesses knowledge and cognitive skills,
but also to motivation and interests. The latter is indeed at least as important for success in the
higher education.
65. Green asks for a review of the expenditure of the resources of the Higher Education by
Court of Audit. It is important to pay particular attention to the relationship in financing
education and research, the financing of infrastructure in relation to the rational use of educational and
research infrastructure and the use of funds to public relations and recruitment campaigns.
66. The higher education landscape underwent profound changes after a sometimes acrimonious turf war between major
and small educational institutions and associations. The current structure of the higher education in
Flanders is disproportionate, not rational and not optimal. Green is an advocate of a rationalization
where institutions of higher education cooperate more regionally.
OXYGEN FOR HIGH QUALITY RESEARCH
Both the quality of research in Flanders and the effectiveness of the resources is high. When we
expect the universities and colleges that they will continue the critical knowledge of society,
the breeding places of social and technological innovation, they have their service to society
will continue to take seriously, it must be this mission supported by the government. We also take a number
measures to respond to the high performance pressure and competition at our universities.
67. Investment in research and development are needed to stop the brain drain and Flemish researchers
in anchor Flanders. Green wants as soon as possible reach the Lisbon target of research and
development terms (3% of GDP) and especially with regard to the share of the government (1% of the
GDP).
68. We create new resources for new lines of research and thus preferably unbound
to fund research.
69. We will take initiatives to ensure the independence of scientific research in Flanders
safeguards, including through accurate screening by ethics committees and by more possibilities
building for parliamentary scrutiny.
70. We strive for a better balance between the resources that the Flemish government spends on
fundamental and applied scientific research, while the share fundamental research
are not less than 50%.
71. In recent years Flemish university researchers are increasingly judged by numbers
international publications in scientific journals. Green thinks it is important that researchers
participate in public debate and be encouraged to pass on their knowledge to the
midfield. Therefore, researchers are rewarded for their efforts to make their research accessible
and to make it useful for the society. Green advocates a stronger value to the community
services provided by the research community.
72. There is a mismatch in recent years has grown between seniors and juniors within the scientific
World: compared to the academic staff, the number of doctoral students and assistants is very
very high. Green supports the demand from the field to the number of doctorates less
let roads in the variable research part of the financing decree.
73. Foreign researchers are insufficiently encouraged to settle here. In order to avoid
foreign students Flanders flee after their studies, Green wants to make it easier for young
144 foreign researchers to extend their visa. Graduate students or young researchers gain
with this proposal in order to find work for at least six months.
74. In consultation with the Flemish universities (1) we establish basic conditions on advertising and
availability which each contract research must meet (2), we arrive at ethical rules
regarding patenting and technology transfer so that by the government (with) funded research does not lead to
licenses or monopolies to private companies, which go against the general interest of society and (3)
We make clear agreements about the location of the industry-sponsored research funds
Chairs and scientific symposia.
LEARNING AND QUALIFYING FOR LATER AGE IS MADE EASIER
Education is a means of emancipation, and that certainly applies to adult education. The Centers for
Basic Education, the Centres for Adult Education and other training providers often reach people now
or have previously been seized or fewer opportunities.
The demand for and the target of formal adult education in recent years has increased. Green advocates
a strengthening of the offer because - especially in times of crisis - is an essential lever for people full
to let them participate in the economy and society. Adult Education must in addition be much more accessible
for unskilled, slow learners and people with a migration background and / or language delay.
In line with our vision of career, Green strives for a model in which transfer between school and
education systems open up education and training for interested people of all ages and constant
training opportunities become more standard.
BETTER AND MORE STRUCTURED OFFER
75. The entire domain of formal adult is in need of reform to the offer to
Optimize. The offer is too little adapted, showing large overlaps and opacity. The result is that
there are very few qualifying pathways are finished. Green is therefore committed to a far-reaching
structural cooperation between public players. This should lead to more alignment and coordination
supply, an increase in quality and a drastic increase in the number of qualifying
pathways. In this way we work more tailored to the needs of students and we can make them real
offering social promotion.
76. Offer providers like Syntra, VDAB and adult education tune their training offer
better balance. So we shorten the duration of the training programs, the content is refined, and the quality
increased. Low-skilled job seekers can in this way for the largest possible number of courses
graduate, which increases their chances of sustainable employment. The early and voluntary
Cooperation between these training providers is structurally strengthened by the policies and ample
to be supported. Important work items are: the development of a joint quality,
a common EVC and EVK policy, strengthening workplace learning, cooperation with
sectors, the influx of specific target groups (low-skilled / foreigners / underprivileged ...) and
regional coordination.
77. The pressure on the adult basic education centers to respond to the capacity problems within the range
Dutch Second Language has become so large that the minimum conditions for quality
education can provide are no longer met. Cover it with their offerings in terms of language,
numeracy, ICT and social skills to indigenous greatly compromised. Green wants priority for this offer
enhance and reinforce the low-skilled.
78. The offer for immigrants to learn the language in the workplace and for people who want to work faster
of expansion (see chapter together).
79. in addition, specific language programs to be developed for immigrants / foreigners who
training needs to follow. The current language selection is in globo directed enough to follow a
training and / or studies. Result is a very low participation in further education and / or (higher) education.
80. Tendering - when the government calls on non-commercial and commercial
counseling services for some guidance and training assignments - is first and foremost a
experimental feature. It should be used as a means to stimulate creativity and good practices to
develop. A division of tasks between private and public players is not unhealthy, but only if
one can guarantee a quality service.
NEUTRAL ARBITRATION INFORMATION AND GUIDANCE
145 81. The offer is for prospective students very unclear. In addition, the logical plays dynamics of
institutions to maximize the students themselves to use (even those students does not serve) a
pernicious role. So-called "learning shops" can play a crucial role here. They should be responsible
be neutral and independent information agency and for the individual and collective
guidance on selection and (re) orientation processes. With a fraction of the resources that the
training institutions now spend on competitive promotion such an important service in
Flanders are built.
CUSTOM MADE BY PLAY IN THE OPPORTUNITIES AND NEEDS
Low-skilled
82. The expectations of low-skilled learners are often too high. Students are required
to go to class, but can not sustain it (because of the illness of a child, no childcare).
Activation Policy for Green goes hand in hand with a number of essential conditions: babysitting and
personal counseling to address other difficulties.
83. Also for adults Green stands for the central idea that education is a right, not a duty.
Transition into the labor market is an important objective, but there is a risk that insufficient
takes into account the individual situation of people. This is in contrast to why the
adult education (adult basic education and specific) arise: the multifaceted development of each
adult (emancipatory).
84. Green wants adult education remains accessible and that this translates into a better deal for
educational leave and affordable registration fee. Better management of educational institutions will allow them
the ability to put more quality through appropriate group sizes and customized methodologies
supply. That way we really give adults a second chance at self-development and vocational
formation. NT2 education (Dutch as a second language) must be completely free for Green.
AN OFFER FOR EVERYONE
85. Asylum seekers and refugees coming to Belgium with qualifications and competences they have in their country
acquired. Green wants the skills, work experience and qualifications of asylum seekers, refugees and
other newcomers in the existing training and education to be better exploited. Can so
training paths are shortened and adapted to the needs of the student. Also the
enrollment conditions for adult education and adult basic education for undocumented or
people are relaxed in the asylum procedure.
86. That no longer be funded schools for teaching undocumented migrants, is
inhumane and counterproductive. We screw the measures taken by the Flemish government back.
Illiteracy TACKLING
Flanders has no fewer than 800 000 low literacy. Low literacy has far-reaching social consequences,
the welfare of a large part of the population is at stake. The risk that people are excluded or are
uitgelsoten feel is great. Government, education, corporations and organizations in Flanders and Brussels give
literacy in the coming years a high priority.
87. The government uses accessible and clear language in all communications to the public.
88. We inform and sensitize the population about low literacy, so that it disappears taboo and people
with a literacy problem easier the courage to step into formation.
89. Basic Education, institutional actor to combat illiteracy, receives assurances to work from
a broad concept of literacy, which both functional education and social cohesion will be discussed. In
consultation with other educators and welfare, we are increasing the range and the guidance of the
target audience.
90. Through the CPAS customers have access to tailored training. Working parents of literacy we do
also in collaboration with education. It ensures greater involvement in the school and that works
motivating their children. In this way, low literacy is being addressed over several generations.
91. Young people have many opportunities to address learning disadvantages: in all subjects at school, but also outside,
For example, on playgrounds, in youth clubs, sports or cultural activities, the literacy
young people be encouraged. Also integrates literacy for adults
vocational training.
146 92. Education can not solve the problem. We organize training on the shop floor
low literate government employees. Companies, organizations and employment agencies screen potential
low literacy and bring the literacy requirements in the workplace identified. The government supports them in the
eliminating literacy barriers, integrated literacy training to provide tailored
and to sensitize everyone in the company or organization.
147 GOOD LIFE, HOME AND
ON THE ROAD
SPACE FOR MORE QUALITY OF LIFE
VISION
Sustainable development of cities and towns starts with good planning.
Fine living, relax, move us, let children romp, healthy
food production with limited environmental footprint, entrepreneurship, renewable energy
raise ... Many questions come down to our room. What we are dealing with our space
constitutes a healthy living environment, not only for today but Flemings
also for future generations. At the same time a sustainable development of our space a

lever for clean air, clean water, affordable agricultural land, biodiversity,
less economic damage from flooding, space for afforestation and for
renewable energy, cleaner transport.

The last fifty years is a sprawling mix of Flemish cities and Brussels underway.
That brings a lot of (auto) mobility with it, wasting energy and too many open and green
space. Still go a day lost 6.5 hectares of open space in Flanders. Population growth
continues the space under pressure. If we continue to play at the same tempo open space,
will be built over more than 40% of the open space in 2050. Flanders further
parcel in plots with detached houses is not sustainable given the challenges
from
fragmentation,
loss
to
ecosystem services,
air pollution,
files,
Climate change, population growth, aging, ... We want all these extra Flemings
and Brussels cope without the ecological capacity of our space to continue
grope. Demographic pressure is expected in the city, so we must
urgently develop a vision for an ecological urban sprawl.

We strive for the protection and development of coherent open space areas.
High-quality core reinforcement and innovation, combined with higher density,
multiple and flexible use of space, lots of green spaces and play areas. By living,
work, shop and spend leisure closer together and in urban and village centers to
bundling, we save on utilities, more people can use
quality public transport, relieve traffic congestion, air is healthier and we can
more space for achieving water and prevent flooding. We want
efforts to restore biodiversity, and forest areas for nature, construction of
urban forests and green neighborhood heaving. Brussels and the Flemish cities we want cities
take on a human scale. Urban development, we choose the model of the lobe city. In
concept which the city is a collection of well-structured ecological districts
(lobes), which follow one another from the core to the edge. Each district has its own core or
ash which can be reached by bicycle within fifteen minutes and where just about everything is within walking distance to
is found. You will find the most important functions: retail, primary education, culture, green,
... The benefits of these exercise-friendly cities in terms of green lungs
have health, can not be overestimated.

Weigh the board can not be. Green chooses a sustainable transition of the
existing spatial structures. Protect remaining open spaces we create and we
more contiguous areas of landscape and open space. We start from the
existing tissues and break it open by compacting it at one point, and
148

greener on the other point in the city and on the 'outside'. We do not want cities
stone alone. With more people, we also have more rest, oxygen and space for recreation
required. We guarantee that municipalities and regions with rural character preserved
continue and even be strengthened in their rural character. That does not mean that where
access is guaranteed by high quality public transport can be qualitative growth
is possible. Rural areas are anyway only viable if we provide a
basic range of amenities in the village centers and public transport access with
cities, tailored to the local community.

Unused or underused land and buildings we activate for living. By efficient
with space to go and clean up contaminated sites, we want to give companies room
without cutting new open space. For the further development of renewable
energy we want to create the space necessary to safeguard appropriate zones.

The spatial change we want to achieve together with all stakeholders. Not procedures
but the process we want to center stage. Participation is not mandatory annoying
nummertje. On the contrary, in a good way and early citizens and other
belangenhebbers involve, provides greater support and better decisions. We
resist making a quick decision which trims participation.

PROPOSALS
POLICY SPACE FLANDERS, A NEW VISION FOR SPACE
FLANDERS?
We should establish today that there is a mismatch between the vision of the Spatial Structure
Flanders (RSV) and its implementation. By capacity and / or lack of time and lack of political will shorten
administrative chain "plan-grant-maintained" in many communities to merely permit. Vision and
enforcement therefore remain unused. In Flanders, was used in the design of a new Space Policy
Flanders (BRV) to monitor RSV. The new plan was preceded by a wide consultation process with the
general public which clearly showed that the Fleming wants to live in a safe and green environment, the automobility
wants to push back and attaches great importance to safeguarding the open space that remains. Unfortunately, these lines were in
course of the preparation of the Policy Plan no longer maintained. Originally introduced principles
as the neutral space open space development where no more is raised during the course of the process
toned. In this way we will be unable to achieve the necessary change in trend.
Spatial changes are structural social changes that are not changed by plans
Government alone. Support among citizens and civil society are therefore extremely important. The BRV was to ensure that
we develop a future vision of our space and social anchor so that this vision can work in
very spatial policy at all levels. Instead, the Flemish Government aims to deliver projects
completely in contradiction with sustainable spatial development, just think Uplace.
1. In addition to support from citizens and political behavior of society is needed. This support can not create a
framework to create that can still out in all directions. That is why we require a framework that indicates very concrete
where we want to go to our room. Economical use of space and space neutrality should be the guiding principle
forms of this framework. (V)
2. In addition, it should be clear that there remains intact in the RSV. Otherwise we end up in the situation
anything goes, the new plan offers little grip and the old apparently shut down. Open and urban and
physical system that controls spatial are also excellent starting today. (V)
3. From the outset, it should also be clear how will be assisted local authorities to the new
to achieve spatial vision for the property. The regional governments should local governments clear
frameworks provide for their spatial considerations and plans. Provide sufficient capacity for local governments
to ensure that decentralization does not lead to deregulation but to greater involvement
and a tighter interaction between government and citizens. (V)
4. The starting point today is that all municipalities in 2015 are automatically emancipated. Not all municipalities will
however, meet all the conditions. Local governments should be firmly supported. They get
additional tasks due to the new environmental permit and by the downgrading of licenses
currently the provinces are delivered. One can not expect that every municipality over
has sufficient administrative capacity and environmental knowledge. (V)
149

TERRITORIAL DEVELOPMENT WITHOUT IMPAIRMENT OF PUBLIC SPACE
5. Today petrifies and fragmented Flanders at full speed. Roads, expansion of industrial and housing
gobble up more and more space. The bottom seal ensures that the rainwater does not naturally
way can not penetrate and it is accelerated discharged into the rivers. With floods due. Therefore
We make economical use of space and the original ambition of space neutrality, so
hardening stop, back in the Policy Space Flanders. We can save space and landscape
if we delete poorly located residential expansion areas. Setting a hardening stop means
not that no developments are possible. Through a smart compaction and reconversion policies in cities,
but also in the outer area, we can free up space correctly. Achieve a hardening stop requires active
land policy. (V)
6. In carrying out the opportunities in the new Land Use Act, the government buys also proactively
strategically located land and buildings in cores. For land acquisition, the government can use
the right of pre-emption or land exchange. The government can offer this buildable land in exchange for
poorly located land in construction zones, flood plains, areas for nature and
landscaping, farmland and open space. The soils in this poorly located construction zones we can
reallocate as natural or agricultural areas. (V, B)
7. Residential Expansion Areas that are provided in the regional plans as reserves in case there in real
residential areas is no more space, we want to repurpose. Keep this stock, constitutes an obstacle to a
kernversterkings- quality and densification policies and this stock would use harmful effects
have to include the environment, mobility and quality of life. In the cities and larger municipalities is
ample space for compaction. We want to refocus resources to those areas in cities and larger
municipalities. (V)
8. We encourage the public land and patrimony party in its own hands. They can them available
set by making active use of the building rights and leasehold that our legislation since the 19th
knows century. Both building rights as leasehold come down to separate ownership of land and
home. (V, B)
9. We want to give back more incentives for soil remediation. Investing in soil creates new space
to take new space to live or new space for nature. There must be sufficient financial
funding to be - and who were not in recent years. (V)
10. We put in the place of an atlas of the residential expansion areas in a monitoring system that continuously
in the different municipalities follow what grounds for densification and strengthening core are suitable. This
inventory lists areas that are underexploited today but due to their location are suitable for
compacting and interleaving. This information is useful for businesses and services, associations and
investors. (V)
11. Vacancy is wasteful. Space is a scarce commodity and we must not waste it with care. Rezoning
and reuse of empty properties is crucial. During the term of office expiring fighting was
Vacancy almost entirely attributed to the cities and municipalities. In the Brussels Capital Region was a
"Regional leegstandcel" was established to take over the task of the municipalities. The first results are
visible. In Flanders vacancy rate would have dropped. Less known is the extent to which the fight against
vacancy rates, and the instruments used for this purpose, realize meaningful reuse and repurposing.
Green calls for an evaluation of the extent to which these instruments succeed in vacancy useful to
reuse and repurpose. Based on this output, we will send the policy, if necessary, at. (V)
12. We are investigating whether we have a system of tradable development rights and demolition in Flanders
can apply. Through the bead (spatial implementation plans) development opportunities;
by zoning changes. However, to perform construction law must be effective elsewhere
be softened. Therefore, the proposed developer should demolition of the owners of such rights to
acquire softening spots. (V)

PLANNING FOR MORE NEARBY
13. strengthen Kernen by compacting them qualitatively and to weave through multiple functions. We compacting on
size of the neighborhood and the district without endangering the capacity and quality of life in jeopardy. A structure
strong and resilient cores with open green space between them allows us a high
quality network of public transport can develop. The small urban areas are characterized
by proximity but also make it possible to travel via public transport easily in an ecologically and socio-economically responsible way to another attraction poles (cultural, economic). We vote
so the location of 'densification' finished at the proximity to amenities and public transport axes. (V, B)
150

14. We are committed to cultivate plots in existing residential areas and in the urban areas, there is still sufficient
offerings. If we must begin to expand we first expansion in height (for example,
existing industrial parks, residential blocks, single-family, retail centers) before we new space
broach. If expansion is necessary, she follows the main structure of axes and nodes that good
are accessible by public transport. (V, B)
15. The ribbon development in Flanders is ubiquitous. This Flemish reality creates a lot of space, making
home care not only very expensive, creates fragmentation of green space, little bike friendly and leads to
Conflicts between fast and slow transit, local traffic. Ribbon development therefore ensures
traffic safety and many automobility. Regardless of all these problems could even further the trend
continue. After all, are approximately one third of building land reserves at the regional plans in ribbons or
scattered buildings. Those poorly located building land mortgaging the development of grounds in it
fit a proximity concept and the lobe-city model. New housing estates along local roads not
it fit so let's not increase. The green space that is hidden behind ribbon development comes
back when we appeared before the ribbon development can gradually cut back by example
land consolidation projects. (V)
16. Qualitative compaction in the 20 th century city belts. A few decades back were town centers and 19th
century city belts upgraded thanks to the instrument of the revaluation areas. Social
problems and poverty and the greatest challenge we now mainly found to accommodate additional population
20th century belts. Green wants to work through the instrument of the revaluation areas
reactivate. Furthermore, these belts are ideal for smart compaction. They are after all not close
inhabited already less dense than the city centers and the 19th century belts where we mainly for oxygen
by to provide more green space and public space. Who in revaluation areas in the 20th century
City invests belt, can count on support for demolition or renovation. The city can through expropriation and
acquire pre-emption grounds that available via building rights and as well as social
Avoid crowding and enable social housing projects. (V, B)
17. Green is in favor of the inclusion of the social burden in the spatial implementation plans. The social
load let private developers realize with social housing in their projects. (V)
18. Also for the upgrading of antiquated village centers is defining a revaluation areas
suitable instrument. Again, the municipality can buy these properties and then through a spatial
implementation plan to define a valuation area and work out with attention to architectural
quality. Where access is guaranteed by high quality public transport, and can compaction
siting of facilities qualitative growth be realized. (V)
19. There will be a general equalization of the cadastral income, the last general equalization dates from
1979. Today are the cadastral income and hence property taxes higher in cities than in the
outside area. This is surprising in view of the higher costs to society for remote live and work
proximity to. (V)
20. The current system of municipal financing is in need of reform. The current
system is the further degradation and fragmentation of open space along in the hand. The pursuit
more residents and more businesses in the municipal territory and thus more income leads
municipalities and towns as much as possible to organize new industrial or residential expansion areas.
Municipalities must, unlike today, will be encouraged to work together and to their cores
strengthen and preserve their open space. Compensate the rural development fund and the Municipalities
municipalities with lots of open space financially for lost income if they do not subdivide or open space
converting to a business park. (V)

INTEGRATED PLANNING
Often, projects are addressed from a particular policy area. This fragmentation we want to break. With each
implantation of new activities, the integrated approach into account additional needs for outside activities
and functions for access and basic equipment for green and public space.
21. planning policy is being developed to car dependence and growth of displacement kilometers
reduce. We develop standards for new neighborhoods and restructuring projects that make
all basic functions such as education, health care, shopping and high quality public transport on bikes walking distance to reach. We are increasing the chances that make effective use of renewable
modes. (V, B)
22. The format of a mobility impact report (MOBER) we require for medium and large scale
supplies, industrial and distribution activities. Conditions applied in mobility point of view to the realization
of these projects are made, must be completed prior to completion of the projects. (V, B)
151

23. Spatial developments we graft on network quality public transport. Spatial
Functions profit from its good accessibility by public transport and vice versa provide spatial
features ample potential for public transport. (V, B)
24. Accessibility determines where we amenities with a high degree of activity implant. Offices, cinema,
pool, cultural center, library, school in a community center easily accessible on foot, by bike
and public transportation. Even large-scale trade should be in urban areas and should be easily accessible by
public transport. (V, B)
25. Industrial and distribution operations to come as close as possible to the user and at a location which
is accessible by water (along the canal) or rail. (V, B)
26. Integrated planning ensures that advance an estimate of the impact of spatial
development of public health (particulate matter, obesity, ...) is made. Takes the current EIA procedure
too much with these effects. Results of these assessments should weigh in the decision. (V, B)

CREATIVE COLLECTIVE AND DEALING WITH SPACE
27. Destinations are more opened to multiple use or shared. Not everything can always
everywhere, but much more than is currently the case. We want to intensify the use and activities in one place
to save space. Some examples: (F, B)
a. above companies we post offices or parking;
b. the upper parking space we can use for sports facilities or greenhouses;
c. in some places hard infrastructure (highways, ring or rail) the town
cross overbuilt or be encapsulated to make additional green space in the so
city;
d. school facilities (gymnasium, playground, classrooms, ...) is after school hours for activities
associations and local residents are using;
e. various sports clubs can share their sports;
f. business parks may be open during evenings and weekends for neighborhood residents.
28. Sustainable planning also takes into account changing use of buildings and space. Obstacles
flexible use of space we eliminate. An accumulation of rules on the same square meter we want
avoid. For example, a building can be easily adapted to the changing needs of the neighborhood. A
children welcome can for example, in course of time into a youth and later in a nursing home
be changed. (V, B)
29. Vacant land and factories we want to give a temporary meaningful destination. Small
city ​​gardens, open-air cinema in the summer or temporary studio spaces offer a socio-cultural added value for
locals. The government can act here as a director for a concept of shared
responsibility to develop and establish the contact between the prospective user and owner. (V, B)
30. Betting on collective forms of housing is another important lever to compact smarter. People who
collectively want to live, are now discouraged by the many rules that are written tailored to the
classic family home. We want the government to help overcome these barriers. We want collective
live according to a broad and diverse definition enroll in the Housing Code and the law. In the
regional and rent legislation in property law is a chapter on collective housing. (V, B)
31. The regional authorities work out a label for collective living. This label is given to a variety of
projects that create live collectively. The label inspires confidence in official bodies that have very little
be familiar with the concept. This label can people get separate addresses in the municipalities,
be regarded as a single person with a social benefit and it is not covered by urban planning
requirements of students and the like (F, B)
32. A major barrier for those who want to live collectively, building or renovating, are the municipal
planning regulations. Therefore Green wants the regional authorities municipalities
support and assist in order to adjust it. (V, B)
33. Green advocates a rolling fund for preparatory project, the purchase and renovation of a building in
the context of collective housing. The gain realized by the sale of properties, can again
be invested in new projects on collective housing. (V, B)

SPACE TO BUSINESS
34. A business park is now too much a throwaway: if it is outdated, moving companies and remains
the junk behind. Instead of constantly new open space to cut for industrial choose

152

For better use of existing stock, development of brownfields, economical use of space and a
choice for companies with high added value instead of space-consuming distribution. (V, B)
35. Today, there is a (too) large range of greenfield sites. There will be a screening of the stock of
greenfield industrial sites. We thereby abandoned the principle of "safety stock" that a
oversupply of greenfields which makes the brownfield redevelopment is difficult from the ground. (V)
36. For the opening of new business areas we need a study which required
Municipalities also need to produce a clear economic profile. For example, the knowledge economy
not industrial but rather in urban places needed. (V, B)
37. Space-efficient business parks. We are looking to form closer working and doing business. Sustainable
industrial organization of collective logistics, collective equipment for waste, water and energy, to
with collective management and park management. The objective should be to use a climate-neutral way
to create business parks. (V, B)
38. Many vacant business lots are already developed industrial estates. These and other
vacant land in industrial zones are used to accommodate economic needs
(= infill). (V, B)
39. The law of large trading companies, called IKEA law has led to an explosive growth
shopping centers and large commercial establishments in Belgium. This was at the expense of the retail trade in the city centers,
at the expense of jobs and at the expense of a lot of open space. The regionalization of the law on business establishment
offers the possibility of revision. We want to strengthen the urban fabric rather than city centers
empty by sucking mega malls in the suburbs. We call for a full integration of
stedenbouwkundige-, environmental and socio-economic permit. (V)

Qualitative, CHILD FRIENDLY, INCLUSIVE PUBLIC SPACE
40. Children serve as the standard for (re) construction of public spaces. (V, B)
41. Spatial plans and regulations apply over density standards. We strive for a balanced
combination of floor index, construction index, open space index, building heights. We limit
built / paved area and has plenty of open space and greenery in proportion to the
floor area and the structure of the building blocks. By decree standards are defined for greenery
everybody's neighborhood. So green in your neighborhood is a basic right that you can enforce. (V, B)
42. Green is not the same as real nature. By 2020, every city has a center accessible on urban forest
cycling distance. Space in former residential expansion areas are particularly suited. In the
forestry compensation is today more than 8 million euro but there are hardly any grounds for the
compensation forest area. (V)
43. The public domain should be given again to the residents. Safe and quiet residential neighborhoods
meeting place are an important bulwark against loneliness in an aging society.
Children should be able to play back and romp, a play twice a year is really not the solution.
Green calls for the cars to eliminate up from the neighborhoods and alternative for local residents
parking lots to provide parking structures at the edge of the residential area. (V, B)
44. Qualitative space is inclusive space: streets and squares are open to everyone, including the elderly,
people in wheelchairs, the blind, ... (F, B)
45. New areas we want to explicitly child-centered design. Child-friendly space quality space.
Existing neighborhoods are commemorated in that direction. Architects and planners should assume more
children's height and design cities that are also for children and young people are (be) liveable. We
Working on a "playing tissue", a network of formal children's facilities (playgrounds, play areas,
youth centers), informal children's facilities (residential streets, green space, libraries) and compounds
between those provisions (child ribbon). We want young people more involved in the planning of public space.
(V, B)
46. ​​Green will provide more resources so adapted housing for the elderly to realize in their own neighborhood. Of living
own house to live in their own neighborhood. Older people turn to for as long as possible in the family to
continue to live also means that very few elderly people live in a house that is much too large and that only
some rooms are used. Research in the developments of the sixties and seventies it shows in 50
up to 80% of homes there is understaffing. The older residents have little or no busy
dividing their property in order to make for example a kangaroo home and if they consider this or
lacking the courage and / or the resources to do more large-scale renovations. In addition, it appears from the
long waiting lists for a serviced that many older people are demanding for a more compact and more
live protected environment. We want to achieve this by older custom homes in their own neighborhood to

153

to offer. Administrative barriers to kangaroo and Abbeyfield housing projects, where older people
together houses, set up we eliminate. (V)
47. Getting older means being increasingly dependent on amenities nearby. Care services,
commercial, recreational facilities should be close and accessible. Spatial planning with that
need explicit account. (V, B)

ROOM FOR NATURE, WATER AND LANDSCAPE
48. Today are nature, agriculture, recreation often at odds with each other. Green is to the potential of the
Tapping countryside. By increasing the perception area of ​​the country strong by working actively
alliances between agriculture, nature, sustainable tourism, we utilize many economic opportunities.
Sustainable rural development means that we the existing cultural heritage in rural areas
want to preserve, nature and landscape preservation or development, and social, economic and cultural life
strengthen. (V)
49. The delineation of valuable landscapes and valuable landscape features are joining in SIPs
recorded. (V)
50. In the Spatial Structure Plan was established that in Flanders 48 000 ha of natural and
forest recovers. That is just one-third succeeded. In the framework of the Policy Space Flanders
we set up an action plan to put these goals finally a reality. (V)
51. Flanders with his 7% of the land surface, the least natural of Europe. At the same time there is a large
need for protection of larger units nature. By 2019, the Flemish Ecological Network at all
demarcated. And work will be recreated from nature verwevingsgebieden. We want extra incentives
to establish a network of areas for nature through which all spatial destination zones
walk. (V)

BLUE GREEN NETWORK AS SPATIAL structuring principle
52. We are working on a blue marbled green network throughout Flanders. By investing in
natural floodplains upstream, the Flemish Government can our homes and businesses dry
hold. Nature and green retain water in the soil. For this it is necessary that the SIGMA-plan in whole
performed, development of nature in stream valleys can count on extra support. (V)

53. The public domain provides the opportunity to hold rainwater temporarily above ground and slowed down
to feed. Rainwater Plans bring these possibilities. Preparation and realization of these plans
The regional government encourages financially in connection with sewerage implementation plans. (V, B)
54. Ecological urban expansion according to the lobe city model. That means that the expansion is done through lobes
that depart from the city. These lobes are developed targets of public transportations
staduitwaarts go. In those axes or lobes are also developed new neighborhoods. Between these urbanized
ribbons remain green fingers with special attention to water. This leaves more space for accommodation of
water, warm residential areas less quickly and create livable neighborhoods. The advantages are clear:
residents of these new neighborhoods live within walking distance of public transport them to the city
brings but also within walking distance of a green zone. In this way, properties can also be smaller. The
residents use the car less and have games and recreational green space in the neighborhood. Especially for cities
Brussels and Antwerp where demographic pressure is most urgently needs to be elaborated a vision
an ecological town expansion. (V, B)
55. The blue green fingers between the lobes need a clear definition and a legal
protection to ensure absolute as green and open character. Blue veins and green networks
have both an ecological and social connection function (eg. the Green Walk around Brussels), they are
also a source of peace, recreation and nature. They mitigate the effects of
climate change because sufficient water and greenery in the city can temper the heat island effect. Ingebuisde
rivers where possible open back and can thus contribute to nature conservation and increased
quality of life, especially in built up areas. Underutilized spaces in the area of ​​water and nature
we can use the necessary ribbons and buffer zones between the lobes / ecological
creating districts. (V, B)
56. We choose ecological architecture, where green, water, nature, even farming also in the communities and
buildings themselves penetrate. With new neighborhoods and construction projects is required first the green-blue
structure built, then the buildings. We support residents in the construction of green roofs, facades and
tiled terrace and gardens green. All of us produce where possible with nature, helping to build green
compounds, and is not only consumer of nature. (V, B)
154

ROOM FOR agro-ecological farming
Intensive farming, large parts of the country monotonous, grassland birds and other animal and plant species
disappear. The countryside becomes more natural and more beautiful by putting its efforts into the ground-extensive
agriculture. Farmland also under pressure from vertuining and verpaarding (farmland disappearing
because he was used as a horse pasture or private gardens will be set). This also has an effect on the
land prices. Other space users more often have the ability to pay higher prices than a farmer.
Spatial planning could counteract this trend and hooves and protect agricultural land. Scarce
farmland we set up the disposal of land-based agriculture.
57. Transition of agriculture. We choose an agriculture that strengthens the ecosystem and preferably
regionally produced food. Sustainable agriculture is based on the carrying capacity of ecosystems and
enrich nature. We want to give farmers actively contribute to the conservation, management and
improving the quality of rural areas. We put the resources of Rural Development
(RDP III) in. (V)
58. Further exemptions from licensing under the horse will be abolished. On
Thus submit applications in agricultural use to be checked against through a spatial
consideration. (V)
59. spatial implementation plan we want the aspect of "land-based agriculture" let roads
protection of agricultural land upon transfer of a farm. (V)
60. Valuable agricultural land should also receive protection through spatial plans
ecosystems in which it plans to take. Valuable agricultural land used for the ankle
land-based agriculture unless other use does not harm the main function. In this way, remains interleaver
agriculture and nature as possible. (V)
61. Industrial greenhouses, bio-industrial "mega farms' manure treatment and refer to industrial zones
and business parks. Even in the cities on the roofs of car parks or supermarkets industrial greenhouses
possible. (V)
62. In nature we promote conservation agriculture, such as grazing projects. (V)

VALUABLE PROTECT FORESTS
63. So-called "designated zone forests and nature" are protected in land use plans. Really
precious ancient forests, we want to protect immediately by decree. As happened with the previous
dunes. It is a shame that in recent years valuable old forests without more could be felled.
That can for us any longer. (V)
64. Reforestation obligation can not be bought off. Who cuts a forest must effectively reforest in
the immediate area, prior to the deforestation. (V)

ROOM FOR WATER
65. We ensure less paved area. The regional governments encourage existing paved
surfaces of the sewer to be disconnected (streets, parking lots, industrial sites, but also roofs
houses and sheds). New pavements are offset by softening elsewhere and
there again water to give the opportunity to seep through into the ground. (V)
66. The Land Use Act was an important step to bring water back to give more space. Consolidation in
force of the law should allow hard to destinations in flood-prone areas
trade to destinations in non-flood prone areas. We ensure that this principle also in the
practice is employed. Where possible, this goes along with nature. (V)
67. We better take into account the water management (flooding and water scarcity) by the water test
binding to. In case of a negative opinion from the water managers can definitely not built
be. (V)

MAKING SPACE FOR RENEWABLE ENERGY
68. Green makes the spatial organization of renewable energy an integral part of a proactive,
sustainable and democratic planning policy. The appropriate zones as renewable
energy and proactively selected in a democratic way through a spatial and energy plan
155

energy landscapes. The future need for the development of renewable energy defines our ambitions.
(V)
69. Starting point his provincial energy scans in which we diagnose the generation potential. A bright
assessment framework within the spatial planning forms the basis for further determine which sites
This potential is most suitable for renewable energy generation and storage. Spatial
Planning realizes the evaluation framework where energy generation and storage can be realized. Through
SIPs we define the areas on which renewable energy production and storage can or can not come, and what
zones, there are the most suitable. This takes into account environmental, ecological, environmental and
economic aspects. When drawing up the energy plans we involve all stakeholders. (V)
70. Suitable areas should allow for efficient connection to the grid. In those areas we clustering
different sources of renewable energy to the grid connection efficient
expired. Scattered wind turbines with limited power today are often a stumbling block. (V)
71. Also on the government portfolio is fully developed renewable energy. (V)
72. buildings properly orient to the sun, there can be maximum use of solar and
solar energy. By compact building we reduce heat losses and the costs for energy efficiency
make a home less high. There are many examples of how spatial planning can contribute to the
transition to renewable energy. In the regional and provincial planning regulations are
include stipulations. (V)
73. Because of the impact on the landscape and the possible health risks is the establishment of new
power lines crucial to create the right spatial balance. Through the
to lay underground high voltage to, we can reduce the radiation. New power lines
We therefore spend as much underground as possible. We apply the precautionary principle and opt for a
building ban within a corridor above or below lines. These corridors we realize in the SIPs
by defining security zones. (V)
74. We are great advocates of the use of residual heat. By analogy with the Netherlands we have a
Heat Atlas format in which heat and heat supply are mapped. In this way,
heat and demand it be included in the spatial decision-making framework. In order to have a
evaluation framework to come we start demonstration. (V)

PLANNING AREA QUALITY ASSURED
Spatial planning is often seen as a search for additional space for living, business,
urban forests - so to direct goods and services. Derivative, indirect services and capital gains such as environment,
Health, resilience and accessibility are taken to be limited in the process.
75. The implantation is not only determined by accessibility and proximity to features but also made dependent
of environmental quality. We think it's a good thing to introduce a "living environment" in which the
building permit and the environmental permit will be merged. For Green is important
EIA is fully integrated into the planning process. So no parallel tracks but full
substantive and procedural integration of environmental and health considerations in the formulation of regional
implementation plans. This framework, however, also creates opportunities to come to a new, more integrated
think about planning and environmental quality. (V)
76. If the competent authorities of Green depending on the environmental conditions and special needs
charges on environment and health can impose. We see new uses for
environmental permit. The current implementation of the environmental let there lie opportunities. (V)
77. When deciding on the construction or expansion of eg. Roads must for us in the context of the
environmental permit fully weigh the health aspect. When deciding on the construction of
hospitals, schools, day care centers, or needs to be taken into account the quality of environment, for example by
the layout of environment plans. Green will submit amendments to this effect. (V)
78. The permanent nature of the environmental license by introduction of the environmental as
We reject proposed by the Flemish government. Crucial for the proper functioning of the
environmental permit is a periodic evaluation. We ensure that the licenses periodically to the best
available technologies to be adapted. (V)
79. Effective monitoring and enforcement is a necessity to make a success of the spatial policy. With
introduction of the environmental is also planning a pillar administrative enforcement
introduced. This development was necessary for spatial and environmental enforcement to better coordinate.
Given today construction crimes are often dismissed or drag on for years, this represents a step
forward. For Green, the urban planning and environmental aspects of the same
living environment in the same way be maintained. (V)
156

80. The administrative pillar can be additionally useful but should not take the place of a criminal
approach. We ensure that local enforcement gets more leeway. We set a course for an increase
the ability of the civil service that are responsible for enforcement. Flanders may be
responsibility not pass on to the municipalities. Moreover, small municipalities will just
capacity does not have to stand in for the administrative enforcement. There are good arrangements necessary to
regional services. (V)
81. We are strengthening the preventive arm of the enforcement policy. To this end, the government is organizing
information and awareness campaigns for citizens. We also emphasis on knowledge building
experts (architects, among others). (V)

SUSTAINABLE PLANNING LOCAL REALIZE
Local governments play a crucial role in spatial policy. After all, it is the sum of local assessments and
choices that makes the quality of our room and the achievement of environmental goals are progressing or backward.
82. In addition to clear frameworks puts the regional authorities in monitoring, evaluation and supervision of municipalities.
(V, B)
83. In order to control able to make sustainable spatial development which is and
fully developed cost estimator. Today, for a few more people (and the associated
expected tax revenues) started allotment projects. This means that not only costs
Infrastructure construction will be passed on to developers but local governments are in state
made to take into account when deciding for or against a development project with full cost
infrastructure management and maintenance. (V)
84. The federal funds "sustainable city contracts" come through the sixth state reform to the regions.
We want to integrate the resources in the regional Urban Fund. With funds from the Urban want
we finance social and ecological urban renewal projects and as old quarters to dynamic
transform residential environments. In addition, urban functions go back into the neighborhoods. (V, B)
85. The regional government encourages and supports pilot projects that the transformations in practice
bring. The better the practices the greater the support will be for the new vision of spatial
development. The government wins insights and ensures policy and planning instruments or adjusted
must become. We therefore turn strengthened policy on the occasion of completion of pilot projects. (V)

MORE QUALITY AND ACCEPTANCE BY PARTICIPATION AND CO-CREATION
In recent years, the Flemish government has tried to accelerate decision-making through consultation procedures
shorten or erode. Each ad hoc decisions were taken again to ensure unequal treatment and
afterwards provide for public participation procedures. One of the major decisions of the committees Berx and Sauwens, a
thorough consultation organized in advance in order to avoid later conflicts, misunderstanding of the Flemish Government still.
86. The initial objective of the decree complex projects for accelerating, simplifying and improving the
procedures we endorse. Stakeholders involved earlier in the process and steps that now consecutively
happen in future be integrated run smoothly can save time and deliver better projects. But by vague
definitions of what 'complex projects' and when a project of "great social and spatial strategic importance," this decree threatens participation and good planning further erode. Indeed, it is
provide via project decision protections such as forest reserve, nature reserve or protected landscape
just be lifted. (V)
87. Participation is not mandatory process tedious. Rather, a government may be the main aims
but bring the realization can only succeed if the people are involved in a good way and with the
direction and speed can be determined. Citizens and civil society in the beginning of a project or better in all the
involve formulation of the problem in a proper way, allows for greater support and
better decisions. Green advocates a participatory democracy and true co-creation but not unfounded
search processes or nepinspraak. (V)
88. At the district level are good and direct participation methods are needed, such as community forums and wijkbudgetten. Importantly
that the residents have all the information itself with the agenda can determine and give impetus to the
decision making. (V, B)
89. In addition to the existing participation channels such as urban advisory boards must follow to find new,
contemporary participatory methodologies. Participation organize constitutes a permanent quest. Files
often require a tailored approach. Each consultation method also has its limitations. In a lively
eco-city are therefore instruments continuously developed to engage citizens. There are numerous
157

possibilities: citizens' juries, polls, focus groups, forms of e-participation, ... In addition, there is plenty
invest in information campaigns, an accessible and user-friendly administration
ombudsman. (V, B)

REGION-BORDER COOPERATION
90. Spatial projects often have implications for other municipalities and regions. We therefore want more
betting on an area-specific approach to could measure the impact of developments by the various
regional partners and the different levels of government. (V)
91. The dynamics in the Brussels Capital Region has implications for Flanders. Conversely, it is also
so. Metropolitan community was founded through the sixth state reform which should be a consultative body
for matters which concern the regional boundaries overtijgt. The regions close one
cooperation agreement to establish the modalities of cooperation. Planning needs
one of the priorities of this cooperation are. (V, B)
92. Green is the advocacy of the Flemish architect affectionately, which proposes five strategic,
cross-border regions, particularly the coastal region, the Delta Antwerp - Rotterdam, the Meuse-Rhine,
the periphery of Brussels and the Euro-metropolis Lille - Kortrijk to the example of the German IBA (International
Bauausstellung) to set up a development program, with a focus on economic, ecological and
social changes, both large and small scale and in close involvement with the population. Green
Recommends that the metropolitan community start an IBA for the outskirts of Brussels. IBA approach
promotes within public organizations of the area development of faster and smarter ways
to gain ground. In Germany the IBA tackles was successful in including the transformation of the 'gray' to Ruhrgbied
the 'green' Emscher Park. This will require not only financial resources from land use planning
be used, but there will be an envelope from different policy areas are
composite including European funds through territorial cohesion. (V, B)

158

QUALITY AND AFFORDABLE HOUSING FOR EVERYONE
VISION
Housing is more than just a roof over their head. Good living is crucial
of people. Those who live badly or too expensive, it is more sick, completes difficult
it is difficult to find a job. According to Article 1 of the Flemish
resident of Flanders is entitled to a quality and affordable
currently not met for all.

for the well-being
off, and a study has
Housing has any
home. That right

The sixth state reform the bonus housing and rent control legislation be transferred
to Flanders. This is the perfect opportunity to make new choices. The sloping
Legislatures characterized by the status quo or even decline. Continued Residential prices
rise, the rental market got further into the doldrums and energy poverty increased. The
modest rent premium and the social roof insulation, both measures of the Flemish
government, bleaching swabs for bleeding. It must be different and better. Green wants quality
and create affordable housing for everyone with a social, sustainable and innovative
housing policy.

The living right is undermined by rising land and housing prices. Green wants
governments neutralize the prices with an active land policy. In that case
let the government land in their possession for social and private developers, through
systems of lease and building lease whereby ownership of land and property is
separated. Who can build or renovate without acquiring any land, save a lot, and
can invest in a low-energy or passive house construction.

Because of the high housing prices went up quite a few buyers high and long-term loans, with
a heavy loan repayment as a result. The current housing bonus, the tax deduction of the
home loan, not a solution. Green therefore wants to reform the housing bonus. By the
tax rebate limit, the housing prices will cool down. Young people and single persons
will buy too.

Moreover, the government then gives less money to the living bonus and necessary.
Currently soup which operates 65% of the total housing budget. This is in sharp contrast with
the 2% who are venal governments to support the private rental market. Green wants
funds for housing policy reorientation towards whom it is difficult today to get a
suitable property to buy or rent.

So Green wants to upgrade the private rental market. The shortage of rented premises there drives the price
on. The quality of the leased premises is generally less well. With rent subsidies
Green makes sure that more low-income people have left after paying the rent.
Aim Rents restore the link between price and quality. Landlords may count
on renovation grants. Rent back is so attractive.

Green is in favor of the social housing model that people assign a public house,
if they do not have sufficient income or assets to their housing needs in the private
to fulfill market. However, the model is in the doldrums. The waiting lists are getting longer. Much
Social housing are in bad paper. Thus, it may no longer. The
debate how to save our social model residential, imperative.
159

Green is really won for relatively easy and inexpensive solutions such as the
Community Land Trusts. These non-profit organizations controlled by the
community, produce and manage affordable housing. The government can
removing administrative barriers to collective housing, where your private and collective
space combines in employment.

One of the biggest challenges for the housing policy is the impending demographic growth
catch, no new space for living carving. Green will achieve this by
densifying town centers and 20th century city belts. Neighborhoods near public transportation and
Facilities will be a priority.

Green is plenty for energy-efficient and energy-neutral homes. We develop premium
with particular attention to total renovations of the oldest houses. In a jerk we work
as one of the main causes of fuel poverty away. Which is socially and ecologically
and also creates jobs.

PROPOSALS
AFFORDABLE HOUSING
1.

2.

The price of housing is mainly boosted by the scarcity and hence rising land prices. The
governments in this country contribute to this scarcity. They continue to sell land and heritage, often
short-term considerations, such as realizing a balanced budget for the following year. That is
not wise. At the moment there are grounds necessary to make (social) public projects finds
the same government no longer affordable land. When tax funds are invested in the
revaluation of a particular neighborhood, it is the speculators who buy homes and lands and with the
value of these investments to walk. A government that is truly a land development
conduct must not sell land but acquire land. Green establish a regional revolving fund
that the local authorities enables a truly ground - to implement and property policy. (V, B)
Incidentally, do not need to sell government lands and heritage. They can make them available
by actively utilizing the building rights and leasehold that our legislation since the 19th century
know. Both building rights as leasehold come down to separate ownership of land and
home.
The benefits for (local) governments are clear. They can provide the basis of private or
social investors to realize housing more affordable. It gives the government a tool to
social displacement counter. Moreover, the government through the canon, the annual fee for the
ground or use, guarantees an annual fixed income source.
The advantages for buyers are also clear. They do not have to acquire the land, only the property that
which ground. This keeps the price considerably. (V, B)

Affordable private housing
3.

4.

160

Green transforms the living bonus. Currently, you can enjoy a live bonus until the bond matures. All
studies show that housing prices upward estimation. Consequently, people long-term loans
to still be able to buy a home as long as possible to enjoy the tax rebate. Those expensive,
long-term loans to banks only better. Green grants the tax rebate for a
maximum period of 15 years. That means that it can borrow less money, which housing prices in
a gentle way, without jerks, let cool. Moreover, the government should spend less money on the
Living bonus and there will be resources to support the private rental market, social housing and
live collectively.
In the current system, buyers enjoy the endless living bonus. Whoever sells a house to another house
buy, can again count on a tax rebate as long as the loan matures. Green, the right to
15 years of living bonus make once in a lifetime. The law will be portable. Who is already roughly 8
year of receiving at the moment that a property is being sold, for example, because of a separation, has at
buying a house next 7 years on the clock (rucksack principle).

5.
6.

7.

8.

9.

At the current contracts, we will, for the sake of legal certainty, do not touch. (V, B)
The tax deduction for a second home Green will immediately abolish, even for current
contracts. Who has power, thanks to this system using public funds to build more power.
In times of scarcity and high housing needs, this is a choice that Green does not wish to make. (F)
The model of social housing we find very durable and also very selective. Resources
for social housing we reorient the support of Community Land Trusts. On base
of their income and assets are approximately half a million Flemings eligible for social
owner-occupied, while each year only a multiple of 100 will be delivered. The system is expensive and helps
only a handful of people in affordable housing. Moreover, the added value will in any
(re) sale not return to the society but to the owner. It then passes along two times the
cash desk. Green investing the resources of this very durable and very selective system rather in Community Land
Trusts. (V)

Green is developing a comprehensive policy framework for Community Land Trusts in the legislation and in the
residential codes. Community Land Trusts (CLT) put community resources be sustainable, social and
innovatively. These non-profit organizations controlled by the community, and produce
manage affordable housing (both sale and rental). Characteristic for the CLT is the separation of the property of
land and ownership of property. The land remains owned by the Trust. This makes the home affordable, too
for lower incomes. The funds will support Green municipalities that land disposal
for the realization of a CLT and provide premiums for loans contracted for the purchase of a CLTwoning. To be sold starting this premium flows back to the trust and gain from sale
divided between the Trust and the owner. (V, B)
Making social loans for a certain group of people buy a suit practicable. Therefore Green continues
support social lending further. (V, B).

UPGRADING THE RENTAL MARKET
10. Given the scarcity of private rental housing is the price at which further private rental market. Meanwhile
walk waiting for more than five years. Green therefore carries a maximum bill for rent. This
means that people who are entitled to social housing but do not get assigned by the current
shortage of social housing receive a housing allowance that bijpast difference between social rents and
private rental. Recently, there is a Flemish rent allowance for those who four years or longer waits for social housing.
It is not logical that people first have to plod four years in the private rental market before being helped
are in their housing needs. Green links the right to housing benefit regardless of the waiting lists for social
house and connects it to income. (V, B)
11. Housing allowances can only work if rents are regulated. If not have
rent subsidies pushed up prices and the risk that the landlords and the tenants are not supported
be. Therefore Green leads through the regionalized Rent Act (after the sixth state reform) a system of
target rents based on location and quality of housing. So the government can get a grip on pricing
and restore the link between price and quality. Landlords who work with target rents, additional enjoy
support, such as renovation grants. (V, B)
12. Flanders will last ten years in the social real estate (SVK). Green is in favor of a
expansion of these SVK's. SVK's taking private rental accommodation in portfolio and lease it to tenants
eligible for social housing. In the 7000 homes that the SVK together in their portfolio
have, however, they may not make a difference. Green wants to strengthen the SVK's among others the
conditions in order to take housing in portfolio to relax and to adapt to the economic
realities of the region. Landlords who rent out their properties via the SSD's can count on support
renovations. (V, B)
13. The pan out swinging rental prices due to the shortage in the rental market. Especially in cities with
many tenants, the supply must be increased to affordable and good quality housing. Currently
this reduces supply year after year. If landlords death heirs sell the homes include
Due to the high inheritance taxes. Green is in favor of a system of reduced inheritance tax
For heirs who undertake to at least another nine years rent the property to
target rents. Heirs are also referred to the social rental of the burden the
landlord can take over. (V, B)
14. However, this will not be sufficient to increase supply substantially. Therefore calls for a new Green
synthesis between private and social housing. Our savings accounts is to "sleep" 246 billion euros, with the
barely profitable. Part of that money we want to redirect to real estate. People can share
acquire in a cooperative and have a yield that is higher than the savings account. The
161

company thus builds modest, affordable and quality housing. These houses are rented
by SHM or the SVK who take the burden of the lease itself. The residents receive a lease premium and
may pay as a fair price. Thanks to this housing benefit can the cooperative on its
in turn, guarantee the payment of the aid workers. (V, B) [This proposal is subject to the general

vision on activating dormant savings and coöperatieves we elaborate on the financial chapters
sector and taxation.]
15. Green strengthens the rights of the tenant and carries a zero tolerance for discrimination in real estate. The
regionalization of the Rent Act gives the chance to the regional housing inspection powers and
instruments offer to detect real discrimination and to verbalize, also through
practice tests. To combat exclusion of tenants in the rental market, we are working on the compulsory
affichering of rents and the verbalization of offenses against that obligation. (V, B)
16. Green targets both in Brussels and in Flanders a rental guarantee that on the deposit in
Rights acts of the landlord. If necessary, the Fund may also advance the deposit. The advantages
are numerous: the owner can no longer keep out people because they do not get their deposit together, there comes a
uniform treatment of guarantees and the CPAS be relieved of a task not to their mission
belongs. Green wants the system includes both social and private tenants, in the interest of equal
treatment and a better coordination. (V, B)
17. Tenants Unions have the right to represent their members and to defend in court. (V, B)

MAKING HEALTHY SOCIAL HOUSING
18. The number of social housing in Flanders (6%) remains far behind the European average (17.3%). Green is
in principle in favor of a substantial increase in the number of social housing and as soon as possible.
For people with insufficient income to find a quality and affordable housing in the expensive housing market,
we ask for social housing or affordable housing, for example via an SVK. (V, B)
19. The model of social housing is in a funk. The problems are legion. What is certain is that the decree does not
contributes to the purpose for which it was originally intended, namely the solving housing needs of people in
unable to find private rental and sale market. Green calls for the further implementation of the part
destroyed decree Land and Property Policy is suspended and that there is a thorough evaluation of
the effects of this decree. (V)
20. The supply and demand in social housing are not aligned. That is also a
Due to the decree Land and Property Policy, in particular the social objective which requires each
congregation from 2023 9% of municipal housing stock of social housing must exist. Therefore
All funds go to municipalities with less need of housing. In municipalities with 80% of owners are 9% social
housing available for 20% tenants, while in cities where half the people are not renting homes
more will be built in. Green is in favor of a model of social housing which demand driven
works but each municipality have continued to impose a minimum effort. (V)
21. Green is committed to the principles of the social mix. However, this can not replace social policy
to solve social problems. Let alone that the social mix is ​​abused to the financial
save feasibility of social housing. To reconcile the social mix in social housing,
Green suggests that new social housing on a smaller scale and are spread implanted. Then you get as
naturally socially mixed neighborhoods. (V)
22. In the past, were put into the social housing mastodons. That has not been a good idea. As
to be replaced because they are outdated, we build diverse neighborhoods in the city, such as the
case with the Rabot in Ghent. Ghent's approach is part of urban renewal and also takes into account
mobility, quality of the environment and the social impact of the infrastructure. (V)
23. Green wants to change the current direction in which one attracts higher incomes in social housing, with
the sole purpose of saving the financial strength of the model. As long as the supply of social housing
remains limited, the lowest incomes have priority. (V)
There are too many social housing. That works fragmentation of resources in hand. Green
merges the SHM and keeps one active per municipality or by several municipalities working together.
This can then optimally embedded in the local housing needs. To the proximity with the tenant
guarantee, the company is developing especially in larger cities or towns local branches. In every social
rental company founded a residents elected Advisory Board, a representation
should be included in the board of directors of the company. (V, B)
24. In the Capital Region Brussels asks Green 2020, 15% public housing of a social nature
each municipality. Undersecretary Doulkeridis, a first housing plan after years of inertia on the
put spurs. This has led to a catch, but it is still too slow. Green wants more resources
162

social housing companies (OVM), the Brussels Housing (BGHM) and
Housing Fund to complete the first housing plan immediately. (B)
25. Green wants the Brussels Region already start the next government with the next housing plan, the
Alliance Housing. Which now provides for 3 000 additional social housing but Green would like to see it raised to
4,000. For this second housing plan, the next government will have sufficient funds
provided. (B)
26. In order to achieve its ambitions, the next Brussels government will have to provide adequate resources. In
2013 was spent approximately 5% of the overall Brussels for living expenses and for Groen must be so
remain. But in addition, an appeal can be made by European funds and the mobilization of
savings. (B)

EFFICIENT WITH SPACE
27. The challenge of the future housing policy exists to achieve more residential units without
to be taken in additional open space. We speak no additional expansion areas. With a policy
which bet on compaction does not have to. (V) Vacancy is wasteful. That is ecologically interesting.
Space is a scarce commodity and we must not waste it with care. Outside the revaluation areas
re-use (and reuse) of vacant properties is crucial. Moreover, it also generates additional weather
offerings. During the term of office expiring fighting vacancy was almost entirely in the cities and
municipalities laid. A regional leegstandcel was established in the Brussels Capital Region which
This task of the churches takes over. The first results are visible. Also in Flanders would
vacancy rates have fallen. Less known is the extent to which the fight against vacancy and the instruments
for this purpose are used, achieving meaningful rezoning for residential functions. Green will be an evaluation
examine to what extent these instruments are failing to make sense vacancy for rezoning
residential functions. Based on this output, we will send the policy, if necessary, at. (V)
28. Around the world, cities are growing rapidly. That's not us otherwise. To send that urban development,
Green chooses resolutely for the lobe city. This means that the expansion takes place through the lobes from
leave town. These lobes are developed around axes of public transport going staduitwaarts. In
which axes or lobes are also developed new neighborhoods. Between these urbanized ribbons remain green
fingers with special attention to water. This leaves more space for accommodating water, warm
residential areas less quickly and create livable neighborhoods. The advantages are obvious: the inhabitants of these
new neighborhoods live within walking distance of public transport that brings them to the city but also in
walking distance to a green zone. In this way, houses can also be reduced, after all, you do not need extra
cars and you have games and recreational green space in the neighborhood. Especially for the cities of Brussels and Antwerp where the
demographic pressure is most urgently needs a vision to be worked out on an ecological
urban sprawl. (V, B)
29. Around the towns offer the revaluation areas in the 20th century city belts an excellent
chance to compaction. A few decades back were town centers and 19th century city belts upgraded
through the instrument of the revaluation areas. Social problems and poverty we now found mainly in
20th century belts. Green goes to work through the instrument of the revaluation areas
reactivate. Furthermore, these belts are ideal for smart compaction. They are after all not close
inhabited already less dense than the city centers and the 19th century belts. Those who invest in these neighborhoods,
can count on support for demolition or renovation. The city can be via expropriation and pre-emption grounds
acquire these available via building rights and so avoid social repression. (V, B)
30. A characteristic of these areas revaluation is the close involvement of the residents. Via a
Steering accompanied by community development determine how the residents with their neighborhood will look like. Therefore
Green wants in those neighborhoods support collective production systems. These range from construction groups
housing cooperatives for Community Land Trusts. The challenge is to be a total concept
develop these areas. (V, B)
31. Also for the upgrading of antiquated village centers is defining a revaluation areas
suitable instrument. Too often, old houses in the village was bought by promoters after the
municipality creates a new spatial implementation that makes it possible to build there "designated zone 'villa apartments. The prices of the surrounding houses be increased immediately. Here, too, can
municipality itself to buy up these properties than a revaluation area through a regional implementation plan for
defining and working out. (V, B)
32. Well located subdivisions (ie, accessible by public transport and close to amenities, not
remote so) we condense. Current projects of the Flemish Government Architect collect a pack

163

33.

34.

35.

36.

37.

expertise about how you can compact and yet can have plenty of open space quality. Quality and
affordability go hand in hand. These good practices the way. (V)
Green wants vacant or deflating villa parks rezoning. For example, it may be part of the area which is furthest
Away from the town center is to be rezoned forestland. The part that is closest to the village
can be redesigned. This is only achievable if the government alongside the system of planning burden finally
work makes the system of plan benefits. Plan income means that if the government re-tuning a ground
thus being more valuable, the owner pays a fee to the government. (V)
To avoid costly planning blight (if the government approves a land re-making that is worth less,
planning blight they must pay to the owner), we propose a system of transferable building rights,
in which the building rights can be exchanged in construction zones poorly located with good construction opportunities
lands. (V)
Residential Expansion Areas and poor residential areas extinguish we look good. We need not fear
a shortage of living space or even more expensive land prices. In the cities and larger municipalities because they offer
still enough space for compaction. There is an estimated 8000 hectares of unused residential land.
At an average construction density of 25 dwellings / ha, to 200,000 new homes here
are provided. That is a whopping two-thirds of the total demand by the impending population growth. We
the means to reorient towards these areas in cities and larger municipalities. (V)
A uitdoofbeleid implies a diversion and thus, some claim, the government will be much
planning blight should pay. Green performs the zoning through the regional spatial
implementation plans. In this case the Flemish government pays the planning blight and or if there are certain
conditions are met, these conditions mean that a uitdovingsbeleid is financially feasible, in
Contrary to what some have claimed. (V)
Green put more resources in order to realize housing adapted for the elderly in their own neighborhood. Of living
own house to live in their own neighborhood. Older people turn to for as long as possible in the family to
continue to live also means that very few elderly people live in a house that is much too large and that only
some rooms are used. Research in the developments of the sixties and seventies it shows in 50
up to 80% of homes there is understaffing. The older residents have little or no busy
dividing their property in order to make for example a kangaroo home and if they consider this or
lack the courage and / or the resources to do more large-scale renovations. In addition, it appears from the
long waiting lists for a serviced that many older people are demanding for a more compact and more
live protected environment. We want to achieve this by older custom homes in their own neighborhood to
to offer. (V)

COLLECTIVE LIVING POSSIBLE
38. Betting on collective forms of housing is another important lever to compact smarter. People who
collectively want to live, are now discouraged by the many rules that are written tailored to the
classic family home. Collective living is no niche for the happy few, or for some unworldly
citizens. The degree to which people share spaces varies from project to project. As young people choose to
go together kot, sharing a single parent home, families choose not to some areas
share and keep private parts as compact and cheaper and opt for older people to live together
in Abbeyfield projects. Both the concept and the possibilities are still very unknown and often grow on the
terrain from below. However, they still clash in a suit thresholds. We want the government helps those thresholds
eliminate. We ensure that collective living, according to a broad and diverse definition
Closed in the Housing and legislation. The Brussels-Capital Region was already for us here.
(V)
39. Green develops regional label for collective living. This label is given to various projects
who live realize collectively. The label inspires confidence in official bodies that have very little to do with it
concept familiar. This label can people get separate addresses in the municipalities, one is at
a social benefit as a single and it is not considered under planning regulations
for students, and the like (V, B)
40. In the regional tenancy laws and the property laws is a chapter on collective housing. (V, B)
41. A major barrier for those who want to live collectively, building or renovating, are the municipal
planning regulations. Therefore urge the regional authorities on the municipalities to
to adapt it and that the administration supports the municipalities in this. (V, B)
42. At the regional level, set up a competence for collective housing. (V, B)

164

43. All living actors are helping to stimulate collective housing. Flanders and Brussels Housing Fund
Let's grant loans to construction groups. These are not social loans but loans at normal
market conditions. (V, B)
44. Green sets up a revolving fund for start-up costs, the purchase and renovation of a building under
from collective housing. The gain realized by the sale of the premises can be reinvested
in new projects on collective housing. (V, B)

THE CHURCH AS ACTOR the local housing policy
45. Green improves the integration of the instruments of housing policy and developing a housing policy which
responds to the specific housing needs. This need of housing varies from municipality to municipality and can not be solved by
from above to each municipality to impose the obligation to achieve 9% social housing. Green
enter the local housing policy plan. This plan is drawn up with all living actors: local government, the
social housing, social housing agencies, public welfare, community development, private
partners, tenants associations, ... This plan sets out the steps the municipality will undertake the
affordable and quality housing for each resident achieve and what role the different living partners
herein will record. The Flemish government approves these plans and gives the municipality an envelope
to implement these plans. The greater the need of housing in the municipality, the higher the Flemish resources. This
Plans can be made in a regelluw framework which the local Social Housing
can be used for renovation and for the hiring of a cooperative realized
homes. (V)
46. ​​Municipalities that affordably develop real estate projects, establish a rolling fund. That
Fund buys and sells houses. It is a powerful tool to decaying properties or rundown neighborhoods
renovate and breathe new life into that. For vacant commercial premises are new investors
wanted. That is the procedure followed by the Autonomous Municipal Company for Real Estate and Urban Projects of the
City of Antwerp and the model for. (V, B)

ENERGY-EFFICIENT HOUSES FOR EVERYONE
47. Green wants the entire housing stock in Flanders and Brussels as soon as possible, energy efficient and sustainable
Using a powerful collaborative project with several partners: the regional and local authorities,
the
construction industry
knowledge institutions,
businesses
unions,
VDAB / Actiris,
opleidingsen
Employment agencies, environmental organizations, energy actors and other relevant stakeholders. In Brussels
Work Environment Alliance will do so further strengthened. In Flanders, the Flemish fragmented
consultation groups' Roundtable Building "," Building Innovation Steering Group "and" Transition arena and sustainable living
build "compressed into a forceful Alliance" Sustainable Housing and Construction "in imitation of the
Brussels model (and the Dutch and British green deals). In the context of this is an alliance
action plan for energy efficiency worked in the building sector, adequately resourced
are allocated and where different actors each assume their role. The approach is framed
within an integrated approach to sustainable living and building. (V, B)
48. The renovation rate (the number of dwellings in the total housing stock has been renovated annually
is), and the depth of the energy renovations, we want to at least double in comparison with the
current renovation practices. For this, a coherent set of policies is provided. This
go from smart financial support coupled with increasingly stringent standards, about
raising awareness and support for competence development within sectors and intermediaries.
A focused approach will be developed for specific target groups, such as the (re) rental market and the
socially disadvantaged. (V, B)
49. We support integrated approaches refurbishment with a view to making it truly energy efficient
the home. The current premium system provides for today almost exclusively in separate premiums for roof insulation,
wall insulation, and the like. This while quite a few houses require complete renovation. Premiums for such
extensive renovations are now a flaw in the policy. When renovating a building is however the
risk of lock-in effect 'which once performed a renovation, there no longer will be thorough renovation
happen the next 30 years. This lock-in effect is to be avoided. The support we link
in addition to the condition that the renovation is done according to the most ambitious standards. Thus, the
current standard for roof insulation as provided in the Flemish Housing us not nearly ambitious enough.
50. In particular, the bottom segment of the housing market, which partially overlaps with the rental market, needs
revaluation and a specific approach. The renovation curdles there for years. Green wants for this extra segment
Make the effort and developing a more socially ecological program for total renovation. This is
165

51.

52.

53.

54.

55.

56.

57.

166

also the best method to tackle the biggest cause of energy poverty. Central to this
program is a proactive counseling involving different agencies, such as CPAS and local
cooperating governments. In Flanders, approximately 150,000 homes would be eligible for this
program. For landlords and owners who join this program, we foresee increased premiums
for total refurbishment, cheap loans, guidance and funding under the third-party payer system. The
Premiums are first high but decreasing thereafter. We ask therefore efforts of the landlord, but
we also rent interesting. Thanks to this elaborated system of premiums, the landlord can be functioned as
upgrade. Each state of a rented house is linked to the requirement to lease the property
focuses on rents. (V, B)
We provide easily accessible information, guidance and counseling, including through local
housing and energy counters. Energy scans are the starting point of a path to energy savings
which is an E-level set the ultimate goal of a complete process. We want superficial patching up
avoid. (V, B)
By adequate and accessible financing instruments and models we foresee lower
the threshold to invest in energy renovation. Third payer systems with public or private
energy service companies (ESCOs), we hereby give priority and we want to develop further. This
companies themselves are responsible for the energy-saving investments and for a number of years, the
investment cost with (part of) the profit paid back on energy consumption. Then the profit goes to
lower energy bills entirely to the subject. The various players, including the Flemish
Energy, the Energy Fund, the Fund for the Reduction of Overall energy costs, the distribution companies,
but also private actors and banks, up to coordinated and more streamlined. The
government instruments is hereby simplified and optimized. (V)
The reduction fund Overall energy costs we transform into stronger social
weak and landlords. So we want the lake can provide an answer to the dilemma that the
Landlord invest but the benefits for the tenant, accelerating the repayment period and the local
entity as an applicant for financial incentives to occur. Comply with the foregoing proposals, we want
which is also structural renovation works within the framework of structural total renovation can be inserted. (V,
B)
Belgium is an absolute leader in terms of sustainable construction. In the Brussels-Capital
Region has been decided that from January 1, 2015 the passive standard for (private) construction and low energy standard applicable to heavy renovations. In Flanders Green wants an ambitious and transparent
verstrengingspad provided, which from 2018 to the nearly zero-energy standard is valid for all new
homes. This means that new homes built since then almost no or very little energy
use (E level below or equal to E30) and the energy required still comes mainly from local
renewables. Hereby be provided premiums for precursors to be phased in
Leading up to the standard. Belgium can thus anticipate the European directive which requires us to our starting 2021
new buildings to build nearly zero energy. A major focus are hereby used
materials. These must meet high ecological standards. (B, V)
We will launch an incentive program for neighborhood-oriented renovations, ecological urban renewal projects
social and eco-districts. For this, including funds made available from the Urban and the Climate Fund.
Within a district-oriented renovation approach can indeed be exploited synergies and may be a more
integrated and cost-effective approach used (energy, space, greenery, water management,
sustainable materials, social aspects, ...). Be one or several pilot projects per province
launched in the field of "social eco-districts", where there is also attention in addition to the ecological aspects
society issues (adequate social housing, social networks, and more shared space
facilities, multi-generational living, care). These projects can be an important exemplary turd
perform ahead of
sustainability standards and climate-neutral regulations for all
new neighborhoods and new subdivisions are introduced progressively. Where possible, the initiative is in
Hands left of (future) residents and priority is given to cooperative
partnerships.

Green wants to enroll more stringent minimum energy performance requirements in the regional housing codes. Every
(rented) house, whether it concerns an existing or a new home, must meet the
minimum requirements of the Housing Code. Currently the private rental market lags behind in terms of
housing quality and energy performance. Tenants pay sometimes very high energy bills. This is social and
environmentally not desirable. A property lease allowed only if it is energetically in order in the future. (V, B)
The Energy Performance Certificate we are into a battle powerful policy. Is so
For example, a (to be determined) minimum EPC-score 'as a condition for renting and selling
a property. (V, B)

58. For homes that are performing in terms of quality of living really substandard and a very thorough and costly renovation
would require to come to an acceptable quality level, is a new building demolition and replacement
good option. For this, one can count on specific support. Depending on the definition and manner of
count goes in Flanders between 20,000 and 100,000 homes. (V, B)
59. Green cover premiums to replace electric heating except when renewable energy
have source. We strive to 0% houses are electrically heated by 2020. In Flanders
11% of the housing stock is heated with electric storage devices. That is slightly more than 300 000
homes. They have an average annual additional consumption of 10 400 kWh. This drives their invoice from 1025
Euros or more, depending on the type of home. Therefore, they have every interest in the heating system
replaced with a more energy-efficient application. Green cover premiums initially more than
half the cost and wear it during the first years (eg three years), then they quickly
decreasing to finally extinguish out by 2018. (V, B)

TACKLING homelessness
60. The prevention of homelessness begins with a fair housing policy. Green wants to homelessness
prevented through proper guidance and timely intervention by CPAS and CAWs to the eviction of
To prevent tenants. Also at the outflow from psychiatry, youth welfare and prisons
there will be additional guidance. Flanders makes agreements with CPAS incorporating a actorrol in battle
homelessness (V) and the federal government has sufficient project subsidies for social
integration of the homeless. (F)
61. Residential oriented solutions are the most effective in the fight against homelessness. Green budget extends for
'Housing First' out. Which provides housing for homeless and guidance as the best start for a new
life. (F)
62. Reception remains necessary. We review the funding of day-care centers to get rid of excess
daily prices and the wide variation in daily rates between care initiatives. Homeless people without getting papers
also access to the shelter. (V)
63. Green prevents tenants who are victims of eviction after the house was uninhabitable
declared homelessness. The law obliges Flemish mayors in this case to rehousing.
Mayors can the associated costs from the negligent owner. However, these
legal provision is rarely used. Green, the ongoing experiments, in which the
Municipalities, conclude a contract with the Region than the cost to the owner may recover,
evaluation and continue in an improved version.
There is a need for more transit accommodation. Green is pursuing them by verifying whether the municipalities
existing subsidies for the creation of transit and emergency housing, including in the framework of neighborhood contracts,
Urban Policy and Social Integration (especially the CPAS) used optimally. (B, V, F)
64. The regions make greater efforts for transit accommodation. They develop a legal framework,
among other things for its allocation, and provide financial support for initiatives that municipalities and
Take CPAS for the development of transit and emergency housing. (B, V)
65. The claims in respect of vacant buildings no longer remains an empty shell. This law indicates
mayors the possibility of vacant housing units claiming to homeless people in under
to bring. Here we make an effective right of an easing of the procedure. So some moons
municipal owners actively for a renovation - or planning application to be submitted so that the
claims in respect lapses. There's so best keep a supervisory body overseeing effective requisition.
Gaps in the law we addressed. The creation of a federal fund to which municipalities focus to the
necessary renovations to pre-finance is one of the possibilities to support the mayors in
the effective exercise of their opeisingsmogelijkheden. (F)
66. The right to housing should be regarded as an enforceable human right. Therefore opposition Green himself
against criminalization of squatting in empty houses. (F)
67. Our country to ratify as soon as possible with Article 31 of the European Social Charter, that the unfettered
exercise determines guarantees of the right to housing. In 2001, Belgium reservation that article.
(F)

167

SMART MOBILITY
VISION
For everyone, we want to realize the right to mobility in a safe manner, respecting
for other road users and local residents and without negative consequences for
our health and the environment. That is why we encourage relocations and transport
who have the least risk to other road users, local residents and the environment that
bring along: active transport modes like cycling and steps, and a quality, efficient
public transport.

We like the way we travel and goods transport commemorate thoroughly.
The traffic in our country is not sustainable and not future-proof. We are highly
dependent on oil, which will become increasingly scarce and expensive and emissions
GHG provides. Automobility put the quality of life in our cities under pressure
makes heavy demands on the scarce space. Space we need for housing
and more green in everyone's reach.

The many files Flanders keep a stranglehold, are the direct result of a
failing mobility policy. The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development
(OECD) estimates the annual cost of lost time at 1 to 2 percent of the gross national
product (a whopping 3.7 à 7.4 billion). For the commuter which every day silent
stands in the traffic jams around Brussels or Antwerp leads this waste of time to go big
frustration. With typical symptoms such as examples of the realization of
"Missing links", the construction of rush-hour lanes, the optimization of the Brussels Ring
(what additional lanes and thus constitutes a widening of the Ring), you will not solve traffic jams.
Rather, new road capacity draws more traffic, thus ensuring the long term that we
more cars in a traffic jam. Moreover, all infrastructure costs that hope
money. We therefore want the causes of traffic congestion finally thorough approach,
and no longer do merely to system control. This is only possible to switch to
sustainable traffic in Flanders and Brussels. Expensive infrastructure thereby clearing the
job for Sustainable Investment in more comfortable, faster and better coordinated
public transport, cycling and walking for a real policy.

Green wants to work on an ecological turnaround for Flanders and Brussels
less congestion. That requires a mobility policy that, firstly, the demand for automotive and
truck mileage and reduces sustainable transport modes at its heart. Which
kilometers that remains to be done with motorized vehicles have so little
possibly contaminate the long term zero emissions as standard.

In first place votes we better spatial planning on sustainable transport modes:
walking, cycling and public transport. Who wants to live without a car, there must be perfect
are capable of. The lower car ownership, the more space and oxygen for humans and
nature. This means in practice that problems in terms of congestion, air pollution,
health, safety, excessive use of space ... of our present
mobility system can be significantly reduced. A mobility which
pedestrians, cyclists and public transport become central to making the cities
more accessible but also more attractive for families with children who are still too often now
city ​​turn back.

It is unreasonable to expect people en masse leave the vehicle on the side stand in
a space dedicated entirely to the car. It is difficult to leave the car at home as
there are too few credible alternatives. But in many areas we see
168

encouraging developments: car sharing and bike share systems also hit in Flanders and
Brussels established, never before were so many people using train, tram and bus.
People want to make a change, it is up to the government of that transition also
make realistic option. Therefore, we must secondly finally taking forward the
development of alternative modes of transport, public transport, parking switch, teleworking,
carpooling, electric bikes. From the suburbs around the city come fast connections
to the centers. We make sustainable mobility possible chain (use of different
vehicles and modes of transport in one journey without sacrificing passenger comfort and speed).
Sustainable mobility solutions are available and affordable for everyone.

A modern tax policy can ensure that we raise awareness of sustainable choices. A
smart road pricing for cars leading car journeys away from the
rush hours and sends them to other traffic modes. It speaks for itself that this is a policy
asks provides the necessary alternatives. We improve the framework conditions for
sustainable commuting by existing very complex and inefficient tax and
replacing quasi-fiscal advantages of the company car and fuel card through a lot
easier mobility budget that eventually all commuting fees will replace and
improves the position of the sustainable transport modes.

What we are not betting on Flanders develop into an international logistics
turntable. An economic strategy that completely ignores the Flemish
traffic nightmare is a recipe for recession. We prefer focusing on smarter logistics that
supports sustainable economy and can fetch as more economic value from fewer
mileage. We want a shift of freight transport by truck
to other more sustainable modes such as rail, inland waterways and pipelines safe.

PROPOSALS
Conscious SUSTAINABLE CHOICES = LESS MILEAGE
TAX INCENTIVES FOR SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY AND LESS FILES
1.

169

Smart road pricing we are accelerating for all motorized vehicles, including for
cars and motorcycles. As a central transit country, Belgium will benefit greatly from such a levy
also applies to foreign vehicles. A smart road charging for lorries and just one
flat rate road tax (vignette) for cars is not an option. The Federal Planning Bureau
calculated that just barely can relieve congestion smart road charging for lorries. The
vignette makes no difference whether a person is doing many or few kilometers, it is an unfair system where
who more mileage does has a greater advantage. (F, V, B)
i. The smart kilometer levy replaces the fixed taxes (annual road tax and the tax on
entry into service), thus ensuring a fairer way to pay for car use. Who drives a lot with
a large polluting car will have to pay more than someone who occasionally with a small car
driving.
ii. We calculate the charge on per kilometer traveled, but also depending on the time. In contrast to
traditional duties can be a smart road charging car journeys lead away from the rush hours
and better spread throughout the day and / or send to other traffic modes. Over five years we want to be as 10%
to remove the cars from the peak period to a decline of 40% of the length and duration of traffic jams
come. This question is obviously for ambitious policies for the alternative transport modes (see further in this
chapter).
iii. The fares we also depend on the environmental characteristics (ecoscore) of the vehicle and
stimulate more efficient and environmentally friendly vehicles. There will also be a charge simulation
is required given when purchasing a car. This gives consumers a better view of the
running and chooses he or she is less polluting and easier for smaller cars which
smart kilometer levy fails cheaper.

iv. The levy also takes into account the place (and with the neighbors) so they can be used
combating cut-through traffic in residential areas on the road network.
2. ecoscore is the basis for tax bonuses and Mali. Green advocates for an effective and coherent
system of taxation (bonuses and mali) for vehicles, which is the basis ecoscore. Keeps ecoscore
in addition to the CO2 emissions must also take account of other harmful emissions such as fine dust and noise. (F, V, B)
3. Excise duty on diesel we bring to the level of neighboring countries. The European Directive
Energy we want to revise the minimum excise fit so that it takes into account
is the degree of pollution, so the minimum excise duty on diesel sensitive goes up. (E, F)
4. The fiscal and quasi-fiscal rules surrounding commuting are too complex and inhibit the shift to sustainable
commuting. Choosing the car is still encouraged. The derailed rules in favor of the
company cars and fuel cards that are not used frugally for business trips costing
Society annual 4.1 billion euros. The bike fee, which today is not even required, but allows for a
little benefit and may not outweigh the combination of company car and fuel card. We replace this
system by a much simpler mobility budget that eventually all commuting fees will
substituted. We thus do not mean the sum of existing measures with the company as
dominant element but a new tax system more interesting. Each employee is entitled to this budget
the form of a tax, which is deducted in the payroll tax. This amount will depend on the
commuting distance and corresponds to the price of an annual season ticket for public transport. But who
only sustainable modes on top right to choose has a "smart choice bonus. (F)

AUTO PARTS REMOVAL
A car is a very useful and practical tool that we use today, unfortunately, too much: too who
less than one kilometer far must take in one in three cases, the car and even at 500 meters the car is
dominant mode of transport. Often the choice of car is a reflex because it simply was in the driveway. Car sharing offers
the ability thought the car to be used efficiently and selectively. Car sharing is not just for big cities
cambio example where a lot of people convinced by efficient car use. Both private and car parts
organized car sharing deserves support. A Cambio car replaces 10 to 12 private cars. A private shared car
replaces some five other cars. Carsharing already account for 7000 fewer cars in our cities. A stronger development of
car sharing systems can also be an important structural support for the further development of electromobility.
5. We turn the VAT treatment of auto parts equal rules applicable to public transport. Concrete
means that a VAT rate of 6% i.p.v. 21%. In addition, we make the VAT for companies 100% tax deductible. (F)
6. We include a definition of auto parts in road traffic for an affordable parking regulations
possible to make. (F)
7. More and more companies, organizations and self-employed people are discovering the benefits of sharing their own
fleet with local residents (whether or not outside office hours). There is a regulation in the field of VAT
and income tax. So that these initiatives can emerge more easily and grow. (F)
8. There will be a solution to the problem of auto insurance. (F)
9. In the new districts and urban renewal projects, we provide car sharing systems thereby the parking ratio
to be able to decrease. New residents buy or rent as not only a home but also a
mobility solution. (V, B)
10. The integrated user card for public transport also allows the use of car sharing systems
make. (F, V, B)

AUTO SOLISME FIGHTING
Solisme by car (the driver sitting alone in the car), we make very poor use of our infrastructure. So
we transport in the daily traffic jams, we waste a lot of air and road capacity. Carpooling can fight and auto solisme
deliver as contribute to more efficient mobility behavior and shorten the traffic jams.
11. We are therefore focusing further on the development and signing of carpool parking lots along motorways,
regional roads, to nodes of public transport and on the outskirts of the city (P & R). (V, B)
12. Financial support is needed for drivers who take people to encourage and
carpool websites where users find each other up-to-date to keep and further develop. (V, B)
13. Campaigns must carpooling still better known among the general public. (V, B)
14. Employers that implement carpooling to deduct their business expenses as other expenses to promote
sustainable mobility. (F)
15. The Highway Code is a road designed to carpool lanes (lanes where only =
cars with a minimum occupancy permitted) also realize in our country. This road sign with
170

adding "except 2+", or "... 3+" was never used. We will find out where and under what
condition carpool lanes can be arranged. (V)

SUSTAINABLE COMMUTING
Almost half of the population lives on a maximum of 10 km from the workplace and 26.5 percent even lives on
up to 5 km of the work. These are distances where bicycle and electric bicycle fully able to play to their strengths,
provided safe routes to encourage the transition.
That a lot of people asking to change radically in the short term their mobility habits evidenced by the
Results of the pilot project 'mobility project works' (2012). This project replaced for the participants of the system
the company through a variety of transport options (through a mobility budget). Car use dropped
with 37 percent during the home to work. The share of public transport and the bicycle lane and
Combining different modes of transport clearly won popularity.
16. The implantation of new business we associate with good access to public transport.
Spatial plans take into account mobility issues. (V)
17. We encourage sustainable commuting to employers by side:
i. Transport company plans to make mandatory, including evaluation. (The example of Brussels). (V)
ii. Investments for cycling employees for employers to make 200% deductible as a business expense
(bicycle parking, showers and dressing area, business cycles). VAT for purchase of business cycle can
be fully recovered. (F)
iii. Costs for carpooling to make deductible. (F)
18. We are working on the shuttle decree which the current government is not even touched. Is thereby
creates the framework for collective transport, inter alia by shuttle buses and taxis to convert from
car parks or public transport hubs to and from unfavorable holdings located (zone). Larger
companies are already private collective transport by shuttle decree to organize for small businesses
possible. (V)
19. New employees are offered a temporary subscription to get acquainted with the range of public
transport. (V)
20. The electric bike we make a complete shift in our mobility policy. The opportunities that the electrical
bike in the segment commuting traffic to fully exploit we invest in adequate infrastructure.
We create a network of bike highways around the city center, we provide for unlocking
industrial by cycle paths and safe shelters with charging points at the destination. (V, B)
21. Public transport focus more on connections between the city and suburban areas to the
commuter provide a sustainable alternative to the car. (V)
22. There will be a telecommuting plan teleworking to give a helping hand. Employees are given the opportunity of
from home or from satellite offices to work closer to home. (V)

PUBLIC TRANSPORT
Strengthening public transport is essential to achieving sustainable mobility. Good public transport
expensive, bad public transport is much cheaper but less people are using them. Public
Transport is also a major employer and guarantees local employment that can not be moved
Abroad.
A public transport with integrated service and transparent affordable rates
23. The existence of various public transport companies should not be a burden on the user and change
not difficult. SNCB and regional transport companies need to work together better. For more
convenience for the user we are working on: (F, V, B)
i. An integrated fare system (carriers do not only use the Mobibkaart,
but there comes a unified tariff rate per bond). Today provide significant price differences between
bus and train there for that travelers often do not make the most sustainable choices. The example of the
fare integration in Brussels can also be followed in other cities and regions where the traveler with one
ticketje on bus, tram, metro and train can. For all metropolitan and regional urban areas comes
such a rate covenant. The first step can be given as to urban networks in Antwerp and Ghent.
ii. An integrated and coherent network where trains, light rail, light rail vehicles, metros, trams and buses
are brought together and complement each other's offerings.
iii. One integrated journey planner for trains, trams and buses where the traveler immediately in an easy way
The cheapest ticket can buy for the whole route. In addition, the travel planner takes into account
some cars and some bicycles for drawing up a full itinerary door-to-door. Through this planner
171

the traveler has access to real-time information on travel times. At any delays getting the
traveler offered alternatives.
24. We tailor each mode of transport with each other. Smart stops making seamless
switch to other transport modes (chain mobility) possible. We invest in easy access to the
platforms (via the design for all principle) and stops. This represents an obvious connection with
bicycle, switch on bike sharing system or tram / bus, car share vehicles, ... by a logic integration
in the environment and a clear communication. The STOP principle hereby designates the order of importance (bike
and bus closer than car parking). There must be sufficiently small stations and hubs of public transportation,
Safe parking is to get people on public transport as quickly as possible and car mileage
to limit. (V, B)
25. Urban networks provide an easy connection to the major cities with lighter trains. The
GEN we work on priorities. Lines that are ready we start using. Also, Ghent and Antwerp need
for city networks. In Brussels the AM (Brussels Express Network, a train offerings complementary to the
Metro offerings in the Brussels capital region) provide additional supply of public transport. In
larger regional cities are also introduced tram lines (Leuven, Kortrijk, ..). From Park & ​​Rides on the outskirts
of the city, we provide park and ride tickets. We want to entice as many motorists to their car
to leave behind in the edge. (F, V, B)
26. For people in rural communities, we advocate a different interpretation of the right to basic mobility.
There too we want people of good public transport can use. The decree
basic mobility provides insufficient guarantees and to revise it. Nobody let the car stand because
at a distance of 750 meters from his house every two hours a bus comes along. (V)
27. The offer should not only focus on commuters but a real alternative to the car. The
Public transport is also an alternative if you go to the sports club, a theater, shopping center
or just for a family outing makes the evenings and at weekends, eg. by a custom
timetables and attractive family plans. (F, V, B)
28. The rate setting should be transparent and simple. Loyal customers, we want to reward. Who for commuting daily take the train is entitled to discount, even for its leisure traffic. In this way
are family trips cheaper. (F, V, B)
29. "water" should be used more for public passenger transport (ferries, which now
are systematically eliminated, water buses, water taxis). Green wants to experiment with a short-term
a water bus on the Scheldt on the route Temse - Antwerp. (V)
30. Socially vulnerable groups enjoy a special rate regardless of age. For specific target groups
A system based on Less Mobile Panels expanded, the government also ensures there for
advantageous rates for the transport arms. (V, B)
31. We again cross-border public transport. The services of many bus stops abruptly
borders. And cross-border rail links lie fallow. That is not outdated. The
cross-border transport should be further developed. (F, F)

GOVERNMENT CONTINUES TO PUBLIC TRANSPORT ORGANIZATION WITH MORE
ATTENTION FOR THE TRAVELLER
32. There is no obligation for Member States to liberalize the domestic passenger transport. The government must
keep in control of the power over the basic offer and pricing structure. (E)
33. The financing of public transport we leave in the future based on the needs and best
objectives we want to achieve (increase travelers example). Reliable infrastructure,
reliable equipment and a robust (feasible) timetable. These are the conditions for punctual trains,
metros, trams and buses. Ensuring long-term financing is a prerequisite for a
reliable public transport. (F, V, B)
34. The Government shall, through management agreements quality standards that are measurable. The focus is to
customer service (tariff policy, connectivity, punctuality, ...) and attractiveness of public transport.
(F, V, B)
35. We want the interests of the traveler coming to the fore. Therefore there must be a structured way
to listen to the needs and requirements of the traveler and are adequately managed. Travelers get
So participation in terms of supply planning and scheduling. Also in preparation of management agreements or
public procurement, the government actively involves the travelers. We support the demand of TreinTramBus
to establish a new platform for Dutch travelers example (Locov), which as independent
body may issue an opinion on the railways and to policymakers (FPS, minister and parliament). That
Travellers platform must have sufficient capacity and resources to a quality full effect
172

guarantee. To ensure participation of customers and travelers with De Lijn must return full use
be made of the advisory boards where all stakeholders come together The Line. (F, F)

ALL PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION IS ACCESSIBLE TO PERSONS WITH
RESTRICTION
36. The regular public transport should be as accessible to everyone. This relates to both
the decor and access to the stations, the vehicles themselves as well as providing information to passengers increasing.
We want representatives of users, particularly people with disabilities and seniors, active
involve the accessibility policy. They can provide advice and identify bottlenecks. (F, V, B)
37. Train, tram and bus personnel is trained for counseling of persons with disabilities and in order for
proper handling of passengers with guide dogs. (F, V, B)

NMBS
38. Users are entitled to reliable public transportation services and compensation in case of delay. Here
European legislation exists on. The application process can be easier. We want it automatically
payment of compensations for delays through the MOBIB card. (F)
39. We want to reverse the surcharge on tickets to and from the airport of Zaventem. That surcharge
the result of a PPP for the construction of the Diabolo rail link to the airport and provides
sure to track to the airport is too expensive today. We want the federal government
commitment fee buys and this funding through all air passengers a minimal fee of several dozen
cents to charge on their airline ticket. This is obviously a temporary surcharge for the duration of the PPSvergoeding where we can no longer avoid. (F)
40. We are in favor of competition through open tender. If SNCB GENE, Regional
ExpressNet, for example, does not want to operate, we may look for a provider who sees
sit. The government is building more expertise at around organization of public transport such procurement
succeed. But competition on the track where multiple providers on the same line drive and try each other
travelers to steal we exclude. (F, E)
41. Local lines need a new impulse: to reopen regional stations by investing in
transfer possibilities with trams and light rail and parking for bike and car powering
smaller stations in the urban fringe rather than investing in mega car parks at the main stations. (F)
42. The combination of bicycle-train we make it easier and cheaper. Besides easy access to stations we want
the ability to take the bike to expand on the train, also on international routes (including
high-speed trains). The flat rate surcharge for bicycles at the NMBS will be abolished. SNCB can be a
increased rates for a traveler with cycling questions, which may not exceed 10 percent of the ticket without bike
costs. We also continue to invest in bicycle parking (theft safe and covered) at stops and stations. The blue bike offer we expand. Stations and transfer stops the main nodes can be in a
wider network of bicycle rentals. (F, V, B)
43. We conduct a daluurtarief and motivating to train passengers as possible during off-peak train to
take. In this way reduces the pressure on the commuter trains and (kot) trains students. (F)
44. We call for the reintroduction of the 50% rebate to reward loyal customers. (F)
45. The real-time information that now we ask for smartphones is also available available in the stations and in the
trains via built-in touch screens to better plan your subsequent projects.
46. ​​The EU encourages high-quality cross-border public transport without the regional border crossing
bringing rail traffic at risk. International train connections, you can book through one website. The
European network of high-speed and overnight trains will be expanded. In 2030, in each case, all cities
more than half a million people connected by high-speed trains. (E)
47. Cross-border rail links must be scheduled to connect with foreign stations switch
allow on the net (Rotterdam, Aachen / Cologne, Luxembourg, Lille), but also regional connections
should be restored where possible in the interests of cross-border movement of workers,
students and tourists (eg. connection Dunkirk-Adinkerke (Line 73) to transport in the Ruhr possible
can make). (E, F, V)

48. A strong independent rail regulator oversees the infrastructure charge and access to
the net for different players (passenger and cargo). Currently, such a regulator is missing
in our country. (F)
173 49. The infrastructure charging in our country for passenger travel higher than for example in the Netherlands. Thereby
its operating costs for SNCB very high. We order investigation into the causes of the high
infrastructure costs and if possible, we correct them. (F)
50. The use but also produce renewable electricity for train traffic we encourage. Along
For example, the railways is a large potential for renewable energy investments (for example,
placing windmills along tracks). In addition, more measures are needed to save energy
lead as the wide introduction of a system of energy recovery during braking.
THE LINE AND STIB
A better flow is a top priority. Every year millions of euros of public money lost by buses and trams
and fastened driving in traffic. With an optimal flow De Lijn can save up to thirty trams and the same
Offering frequencies. The necessary investments in reliable city and regional we fund through a
redirection of resources from public works.
51. We want to put more effort into active traffic influence, which immediately (without delay)
giving priority to buses and trams. We want a maximum waiting time for trams and buses in own
bed to capture traffic regulations. (V, B)
52. Much attention was paid to the cost of coverage at the line. The point is often forgotten
that there is still a huge potential for savings is tapped by the flow of trams and buses
improve. Moreover, it will attract reliable and comfortable public transport more passengers and thus more
generate revenue. On belbussen and night buses to save is not an option, the belbussen can be a
efficient way to work. Where the potential for collective transport is large (urban and suburban
areas) is more in the line for commuting. (V)
53. The line can by improved traffic flow improve its services and at a lower cost. At the same time
Line is dependent on road managers who organize bus lanes, dangerous areas or elimination
make possible influencing traffic lights. Road authorities that we want to reward investment in flow.
The profits that the line can achieve flow through the better flow back to the government for
a certain period of time. (V)
54. The problem of overcrowded buses and trams we address through to fast-track the
grid management and where necessary opt for a tram systems of urban bus lines that their border
have reached capacity. We are investing in new comfortable trams. There are still too many vehicles
insufficient access for baby carriages, wheelchairs, luggage, bicycles. (V, B)
55. We attract more resources to upgrade the supply and service of De Lijn. Around the
"Future Vision 2020 'and investment projects Line also effective within the specified time period to
can realize, we clarify the budgeting and timing of investments. Explain why
we, by analogy with the investment plans for track a ten-year planning decree. For the
Layout of this investment we involve passengers, other transport operators and local authorities
active. It goes without saying that we choose projects and determine its specific effects on the basis of a
clear and democratic procedure. (V)
56. Upon completion of the Brabantnet we provide good integration with the STIB offer. Close to the lines as
the Brabantnet in Brussels seamlessly to the metro of the STIB and BEN stops. (V, B)
57. In urban areas, we extend the weekend, laatavond- and night out we transport. As in Brussels can
night offerings are complemented by a collective taxi service (COLLECTO). (V)
58. We will continue to invest in the expansion and renovation of the STIB metro. Investments in the metro
not however go at the expense of surface public transport. (B)
59. We are working on improving the STIB supply in the municipalities further away from the center. We
ensure integration of AM. (B)
60. Public transport contributes to improving the quality of life in our cities and towns
by putting in 100% environmentally friendly vehicles. We are therefore working on the conversion of the
vehicle park Line and leaseholders to zero-emission vehicles, such as driving vehicles on
100% green electricity produced in Flanders or buses powered green gas. The Line is also
producer of green power in their own fields. (V)
61. We put more staff on buses and trams in order at the same time service to the travelers and the social
Safety at raising buses and trams. (V, B)
PEDESTRIANS AND CYCLISTS AS A NEW BENCHMARK
174 Steps and bikes are durable, inexpensive and accessible transport modes. Everyone is somehow
pedestrian. The pedestrian is the measure of the town, traffic has to adapt to his rhythm. The street is there in
primarily for the residents, only in second order for traffic. We want streets and squares to claim back
who lives there.
The bike is a satisfactory means of transport and must become head of transport for short trips
municipal centers and city centers. We want to roll out the red carpet for walkers and cyclists and make them central to
the mobility policy. To convince more people to walk and cycle it is necessary that the restraints and
bicycle infrastructure improves sensitive. This implies a redesign of the public space. More steps and bicycles will
also contribute to improving the general and mental health.
62. Flanders is characterized by a high bicycle ownership but the functional use of the bike has much
potential. Today the bike takes up only 12% of trips on his behalf. When displacements under
The five kilometer this share is 15% and above 5 kilometers to 15 kilometers, there are only 8% of the
trips to the bicycle. We aim by 2020 to a share of 20% for bicycles in total
displacement pattern. For short trips up to 5 km, we see even 40% reserved for the bike. And the
electric bicycle must ensure that the displacements to 15 kilometer bike share rises to
15%. (V)
PROXIMITY TO BOOST STEPS AND BIKES
63. By living, working and shopping woven into the town and village centers, we provide shortcuts. On that
shorter distances bicycle and steps easily compete with the vehicle. Mobility Issues
should be included in integrated spatial planning and not like today happen as a side effect
being seen. (V, B)
64. The decades to come, a lot of new districts in Flanders but also in Brussels. Monofunctional
allotments are not future-proof model. The location of these areas is essential for the
mobility behavior of future residents. Additional housing units we align so best
on the urban fabric. The dense railway network with an additional tram and bus network should be as
backbone serve to select good lobes that can be compacted. New neighborhoods plants
we are in places that are easily accessible by public transport or where all high quality public
transportation is planned. From the outset, new neighborhoods will be well served by good pedestrian,
cycling and public transport connections. (V, B)
65. Bicycle Accessibility we enforce upon implantation of large-scale facilities (shopping center,
office complexes). (V, B)
PRESENTATION OF THE AREA TO SIZE OF SOFT ROAD USERS
66. The STOP principle (= first Walkers or pedestrians and less mobile than Trappers or cyclists, then public
transport and then private transfer), we actually apply in practice. For example, in the distribution of the
public space. A pleasant and safe environment will make people more steps. (V, B)
67. We realize low-traffic centers and pedestrian areas in all urban and village centers. We want broad,
barrier-free walkways with safe crossings, well-maintained trails and a cycling network without
holes. We invest in priority bicycle highways where the potential is greatest, on urban
areas. We realize around all central cities a network of bike highways and develop a dense
network in the cities. (V, B)
68. Due to the heavy traffic and high population health impact of traffic in the city is great. The
introducing low-emission zones can fix it. The EU proposes that no cars in 2050
conventional fuel left in the city center driving. We like city centers much earlier than 2050 free
Making cars on conventional fuel. We operate a concrete roadmap with intermediary
objectives so that this will be realized by 2030. (F, V, B)
69. Route Planning function for safe cycling. A bicycle route planner, based on an inventory of all
existing bicycle infrastructure (over-regional) - including their qualification on the basis
criteria such as safety, comfort and immediacy - can be an important tool with a view to
increased bicycle use by cyclists the safest and most appropriate route to follow on their way to
destination. Especially for road users who discover the bike (re), this information is essential to
are. Slow roads and paved kerkwegels do avoid detours and often represent a safer alternative.
Along with connecting cycle paths they are part of this inventory: a bicycle route is not a
"Improved autoroute. (V, B)
175 INFRASTRUCTURE
70. In Flanders Brussels example creating a pedestrian plan and encourages local governments such plan
to create or to be included in the local mobility scheme. This Flemish pedestrian plan sets clear
quality requirements for an inclusive pedestrian infrastructure where parents with strollers,
wheelchair users and other persons with reduced mobility can move smoothly and safely. (V)
71. The regions invest in a network of slow roads, which is easily accessible for everyone. The principle
the "prescription" of (public easements around) near roads for 30 years no longer used
were and can be lifted will be revised. (V, B, F)
72. In collisions between cars and pedestrians at 30 km / h are still 5 to 10% of the collisions a
deadly ending. This risk is therefore still too high. Residential areas deserve a comeback provided
that made this work is a device that is truly geared to accommodation functions like play.
Pits can be upgraded to real performance spaces (with parked cars in 'bundled
parking areas or car parks nearby). Ghent residents successfully experimenting with the concept of life to streets
to encourage people to taste sustainable mobility and create more space on the street experience. (V,
B)
73. If we want more people to take the bike to cycle safely, comfortably and efficiently run.
Therefore, it is used at all levels to improve the cycling infrastructure by providing
separated bike lanes, expansion of the cycle path network, adequate and secure bicycle parking at stations
and in the cities. We provide a bicycle ambitious investment program that sets priorities, with accompanying
reporting and evaluation. The Flemish government has created far fewer new trails they leave
uitschijnen. The top local functional fiestroutenetwerk (BFF), we want to finish by 2030. Additional
on the supra-local functional cycle network we put in a denser network with a focus on safe
crosses. This will increase the cycling accessibility of the town and village centers. (V, B)
74. We resolutely invest in bicycle highways in major cities, namely bicycle paths that as motorways
being treated. There are so few possible intersections and traffic lights. The roads are snow- and
free of ice in the winter. In ten years every city center should be accessible by bike highways such as the
FietsGEN planned in the Brussels region. Therefore additional resources are needed. (V)
75. The sixth state reform come aankoopcomités to the regions. We ensure that this acceleration
brings about the realization of bicycle infrastructure. The new services we provide, therefore, a sufficient
capacity and resources. (V, B)
76. The child norm would we do find acceptance in the vademecums for building infrastructure because what
is good for the most vulnerable in society, is also good for everyone. (V, B)
77. Revision of the handbook bicycle infrastructure to meet the needs of electric bicycles,
wide bicycle lanes and bicycle highways of high quality ensure that everyone can ride more safely. For
bicycle highways is a need for a clear definition and minimum conditions for a bicycle freeway
must satisfy. (V, B)
78. For the bicycle shelters are safe at home and important to the destination. Creates a regional minimum standard
sure that it should be effective in that space for the bike. The government sets the right example. (V, B)
79. We are bike sharing systems to a wider group of users. The offer is extended by
bikes for children, cargo bikes, tricycles, electric bicycles and wheelchair bikes. Share Bike Systems are
also a form of public transport. The integrated user card for public transport late also
to make use of these sub-systems. (V, B)
80. We will provide greater European backing for cycling infrastructure. (E)
81. We are committed to a safe and comfortable closing network (incl. Crossings) for pedestrians and
cyclists next to the road network. By Stabbing ensure minimum distances. (V, B)
82. Premises, we encourage governments to make use of the new road signs for cyclists 'right' or
'Straight through red' where it is safe. (V, B)
SAFE CYCLING AND THEFT PREVENTION
83. A European directive ensures that only safe bicycles and bicycle parts are sold. (E)
84. Combating Bicycle theft. There will be a unique frame number, bikes without may no longer be sold in Belgium
be. The government administers a comprehensive bicycle registration system (with part number). On disposal (also 2nd
hand) the data are checked a custom. Based on data on stolen bicycles
we pinpoint locations theft and ensure more control (which also can Cameras
are used) and thus theft prevention. (F, V, B)
176 ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE IMPACT OF THE VEHICLE USE LIMIT
A sustainable mobility policy is primarily for more efficient means of transport. Energy efficiency
is achieved mainly by making unnecessary movements (through online services and teleworking) and
Investment in collective transport (car sharing, car pooling, public transport and taxi services). The car retains a
place in the mobility story, but we will more efficiently with care. Even 100% clean cars can kill people
or hurt and take up valuable living space away from our children. We want to develop the cars themselves to
meet a zero-emissions standard.
85. Speed ​​limits on roads ring set, just as we provide with ozone peaks, is not only the environment
benefits but also relieves traffic congestion because traffic is flowing more evenly. (F)
86. One car is not the other. Green will, therefore, deploy the fleet more energy efficient and
environmentally friendly. Especially the different governments, public authorities, business leaders and
leasing companies and providers of car sharing are encouraged through their purchasing
To give an example. (F, V, B)
87. A major obstacle to the growth of vehicles powered by alternative fuels is the lack of
infrastructure to 'refuel fuels' the. Vehicles will be driven in the future by
mix of fuels depending on the means of transport and the distance traveled. The infrastructure for gas (LPG,
CNG, biogas), electricity and hydrogen refueling along Flemish roads should be greatly expanded.
In addition, the government should as much as possible to ensure that the infrastructure development is consistent with the
development of renewable energy. In this way it is possible to nourish the road transport
renewable energy. Additional road tax for vehicles that run on LPG will be abolished. (F, V, B)
88. Research on electric vehicles, fuel cells, hydrogen internal combustion engines (nature / bio) gas or
cars that run on compressed air, we plan to continue. As long as it is not clear which
technology really has the best assets, the government can choose best for diversification and strict
emissions standards drive innovation. In the longer term it is possible that different green
technologies will exist next to each other. (V)
89. Manufacturers we undertake to take back and recycle batteries for electric vehicles. (E, F)
90. When deciding on the construction or expansion of eg. Roads must for us in the context of the
environmental permit the aspect of health, so air pollution roads for motorized traffic, in full
by roads. When deciding on the construction of hospitals, schools and kindergartens should be considered
are presented with the quality of environment, for example, by setting the format of plans. (V)
91. In the context of building permits, EIA studies, route studies or the development of regional implementation plans
(SIPs) for new large commercial establishments, industrial estates, industrial installations and residential areas will
a mandatory mobility impact report, showing what the impact of mobility. The cumulative
mobility impact of different projects in the same zone herein to investigate an important
parameter. (V, B)
92. Without the pull factor to take into account it can be to make a proper assessment of
social costs and benefits in the medium and long term. Traffic Models used
for environmental impact assessments and cost-benefit analysis and thus form the basis for
planning decisions should take account of attraction effects. (V, B)
93. We encourage the rapid transition of scooters with fuel motor for electric bicycles and electric
scooters. The emission standards for motorized two-wheelers, we want to tighten up at EU level.
Speed ​​limiters we ban because it increases fuel consumption and consequently more
expelled. (E)
BIOFUELS
The production of biofuels takes away millions of hectares of fertile land space, especially around the world.
Thus we bring our consumption of biofuels as food supply in jeopardy. But it
For example, generates some risks in terms of biodiversity (monocultures) and water supply. Agricultural Crops
should not be used as food as raw material for fuel production.
94. The consumption of biofuels whose production requires arable land, we a cap on max.
5 percent. Europe requires Member States best no established minimum blending in. (E, F)
95. There is an end to the exemption of excise duties for such biofuels. (E, F)
96. We organize more research into the costs and benefits over the entire production and consumption chain
Biofuel of the next generation. (V)
177 BETTER EUROPEAN STANDARDS FOR NEW VEHICLES BY 2020
Green wants to quickly make the transition to energy-efficient vehicles with emissions as low as possible pollutant
fabrics. Standards for vehicle efficiency, we want to tighten sensitive. We believe in the power of innovation
the European automotive industry. But as long as there are no ambitious targets, remain current
technologies dominate and continue to wait for the breakthrough of alternative drives. Yet we have this
need new concepts.
97. There will be more stringent standards in terms of emissions. We aim for an emissions standard for new cars
eighty grams of CO2 per kilometer by 2020. That is, a car with three liters hundred kilometers far
comes. By 2025, we advocate sixty grams of CO2 per kilometer, which corresponds to a two-liter car. On
time we go to zero emissions. (E)
98. There will be an accurate method for measuring vehicle emissions, which also measured the emission value
is actual emissions value. (E)
AIR TRANSPORT
99.
100.
101.
102.
103.
104.
We call for a ban on night flights at European level. If this is not possible, the federal need
government draw up a roadmap for phasing out night flights so that by the end of the
Legislatures no more night flights take place between 23h and 6am. By setting a
ban on night flights, we ensure that people can sleep decently, crucial for health. (F, E)
We also want to stop the growth of day flights. Short flights (less than 500 km) to better
be replaced by high-speed trains. (E, F)
We reduce the unfair competitive advantage for air transport. Who ever follow the tank of his car,
pays taxes, who the tank of his plane not ever follow. Also on renting a car or buying
a train ticket, you pay tax, not on plane tickets. Compared to other means of transport is
air nevertheless hugely polluting. It is logical and just to solve this distortion
by now also to raise excise taxes on kerosene and the existing VAT exemptions on air traffic down
purchase at European level. (E)
The EU is no longer allow state aid to airports. (E)
To reduce and increase safety detours, there will be a Single European Sky. (E)
Now airports run a competition with each other to attract more travelers. Europe draws a
rational plan out which airports have a reasonable place next to high-speed trains, with tempering
environmental disruptive competitive pressure. (E)
SAFER TRAFFIC
Traffic is a major cause of insecurity and feeling of insecurity.
In 2012 fell in Flanders 381 fatalities, the number of injury accidents increased to 28 051. For young people between
15 and 24 are even the main cause of traffic accidents. Due to a lack of an integrated approach
we get even the target of 2015 still 'only' 250 fatalities are not counted. An objective for
Green can mean only an intermediate step on the way to zero casualties in traffic. As many as one in five Belgians knows
someone who was once involved in a fatal accident, according to the national road safety survey. Same
Survey revealed that cyclists feel the onveiligst in traffic. Many dare even step does not convert to
bike because of the feeling of insecurity. Traffic Insecurity is also one of the main causes for the
reduced autonomous mobility of children and young people. For traffic safety concerns therefore means the
increasing mobility of our children. High time to put road safety higher on the agenda and a
to implement effective security. Following the example of Sweden and the Netherlands ("zero vision"), we must strive
for zero casualties in traffic by an integrated road safety policy. In the traffic today
people are constantly overburdened. Rules are established, landscaped streets, cars which made the extreme
Taking the self-monitoring and response skills of all road users. But people make mistakes.
The traffic system must take this into account. And also explicitly draw the map of weak and soft
road users. This is possible if we work together to make better enforcement (controls), ensure the safety of roads and
improving the security of the cars themselves.
105. The current Flemish traffic safety plan will expire on 1 January 2015. We want to make quick work of a
successor. The new plan must have the ambition to reduce the number of casualties to zero. We
develop a roadmap in order to realize this objective. Particular attention we pay
measures that help reduce traffic congestion and speed. (V)
178 106. The safety of pedestrians and cyclists is a mandatory precondition of the mobility policy. At
every (re) construction of the road safety of walkers and trappers is ensured, even during the
work. If we succeed, the number of deaths and serious injuries among cyclists quickly to decrease, we can
entice more people to make the switch from the car to the bicycle, which is again a positive effect on
road safety will have. The enforcement secures the safety of cyclists and pedestrians
central (eg. to determine when and where speed controls should take place). (V, B)
107. An effective policy requires reliable and complete information on accidents and a better knowledge of
the causes of accidents. Data from the police let us complete by hospitals and
prevention services (as it relates to commuting accidents). To the underreporting at address
single-vehicle accidents (= not involving another party which often are related to infrastructure), let
Dutch example the victims themselves register accidents. There is more depth investigation into the
causes of traffic accidents. (F, V, B)
108. The ribbon development provides plenty of space, but also for reduced road safety and
problematic flow as ribbon development ensures that in roads with a connection function
are numerous residential area accesses. That little bike friendly and leads to conflicts between fast and
slow traffic. Hence we call a halt to the ribbon development and improve road safety
by constructing service roads. (V)
109. The driver training and -examinering serves alongside the basic skills (knowledge of traffic rules, it can
driving a vehicle) also the right attitudes and social traffic to learn and to test
(hazard, risk perception, risk acceptance, self-reflection and the ability to tune the each other
equity and the risks that it enters into the traffic). Particular attention should be given to the needs
and limitations of other vulnerable road users (cyclists, pedestrians). (V, B)
110. All forms of driver training must, without discrimination, should be subject to strict quality standards
with emphasis on retraining and must be completed with a driving test administered by an
test center is independent of the driving schools. (V, B)
111. When police, magistratuur- and advocacy training is sufficient attention to the emotional
dimension in dealing with victims. (F)
OBJECTIVE subjective chance INCREASE AND STRENGTHEN
ENFORCEMENT CHAIN
112.
113.
114.
115.
116.
117.
The sixth state reform allows regions to be active in the future in terms of
enforcement, complementary to the work of police and prosecutors. We want the new regions
use power to strengthen enforcement of traffic rules in Brussels and Flanders. The
objective and subjective chance we raise. (V, B)
An excessive speed is the main cause of serious casualties. Each fall driven in speed
immediately implies a decline in the number of deaths and serious injuries. To determine where speed traps
queries, we utilize the knowledge of local residents and road users. We provide a simple
ability to pass places with a high speed demons. Also on regional roads
where there are no deposited bicycle path or conflict free crossings we float controls. We build
section control as an enforcement tool further. (V, B)
There is a specific approach for the three killers "in traffic: inappropriate speed, drink driving
(eg. alcohol and drugs) and not wearing a seatbelt. Besides the increase of controls as part of the acceleration
in the procedure. C entral a new service relieves example, police and prosecutors through the PVs
for fast application speeding, send and collect. To police and so
relieve prosecutors. As part of the criminal justice approach to road safety, these violation
prioritized. Educational penal measures including the expansion of the alternative
judicial measures for traffic offenders we develop. Thus, we advocate mandatory
install an alcohol interlock but also for more community service with casualties. (V, B, F)
We punish repeat offenders effectively. The parquet must be approved in view of a
regularly updated register traffic violations. (F)
We strengthen the traffic department at the police court and the police court. (F)
The introduction of a driving license with points, it is logical sluitstuik of better enforcement. Most
Technical barriers are finally resolved, we carry the license on points in practice. (F)

SAFE INFRASTRUCTURE AND SAFE VEHICLES
179

118.

119.

120.

121.

122.

123.

124.
125.

Car traffic adapts to its environment and not vice versa. We argue for a generalized
introduction of 30 km / h in residential areas where the residential function prevails and only on roads 50 km / h.
On regional roads outside urban areas is 70 km / h, the general rule for traffic safety and its
flow increase, but also to contribute to the reduction of harmful substances for the
residents to through traffic. Through the sixth state reform, the regions are competent in the matter.
Flanders so there can quickly make this principle work in the highway code in writing. Adapt infrastructure
we are at the desired speeds, speeding becomes so unattractive or even impossible. The placing
signs is not enough. During the transition period, we ensure that the probability of detection is high enough this
enforce speed limits. (V, B)
The classic road safety policy is based primarily on the elimination of "black spots". Safe
design can prevent accidents and costly infrastructure modifications. Road safety audits should
therefore be applied to all projects and designs that are funded by the regions (with it). (V,
B)
Safety first on traffic flow. Traffic lights can make a significant contribution to the
traffic increase but still too often dominates the flow of the motorized
road traffic. On school routes and dangerous areas with busy traffic and quickly we set up in the
avoiding conflict between the soft and the motorized road users. So we avoid example
while green for traffic turning and cyclists / pedestrians going straight. (V, B)
The heavy transport we concentrate on suitably equipped roads. Transit freight traffic is
banned from urban areas. Super Trucks (very long truck combinations), we do not allow our
roads. Trucks are required to be fitted with a blind spot system and a closed side (side plates between the wheels). (F, V, B)
Stricter standards in terms of safety for vehicles. Active safety devices standard
be mounted on vehicles, giving priority to safety for cyclists and pedestrians. The NCAPveiligheidstests (New Car Assessment Program tests the crash safety for passengers and pedestrians
as counterparty) we adjust, with the relative safety of pedestrians and cyclists is an important
criterion. (E)
The regions facilitate the introduction of intelligent speed adaptation (ISA), together they provide a
roadmap. This plan also contains measures to increase support for ISA. The Regions
provide appropriate, regularly updated, electronic maps of the rate regimes. Waist short
time we introduce a semi-open system of ISA. The speed can be better enforced
because the driver with a speeding feels pressure on the accelerator. (V, B)
At European level we advocate an obligation of ISA and alcohol lock in new cars. (E)
A regulation is developed for self-steering cars. Through pilot projects being explored
benefits and risks are self-directed and in which stretches of road vehicles can initially be
admitted. These vehicles must be programmed so that they strictly observe all traffic regulations and
they have minimal environmental impact. The safety of vulnerable road users, thus avoiding sensitive
improve. (E, F)

FREIGHT
In the pact in 2020, the Flemish government has set the ambition to become the logistics hub of Europe. The
choice involves a lot of risks in the environment and humans. We want to logistical investments in long-distance journeys
not encouraging: in this way we subsidize the relocation of our companies and shedding jobs here at home.
We opt for logistics that supports the sustainable economy and realizes transport with less polluting
vehicles.
126. We will also examine the goods to shift to more environmentally friendly modes of transport and a
optimal coordination of the various modes of transport interconnect. This means that the regions with the
Take a card from the rail. Other alternatives are ships that do cabotage (short
sea ​​shipping), inland waterways, but also pipelines. (V)
127. The smart road charging for lorries we enter definitively in 2016. For freight trains is long
an infrastructure charge applies. Smart road pricing we make depends on time, place and
environmental characteristics of the vehicle. The rates should be high enough to shift to more sustainable
transport and more efficient transport than to promote road transport. (F, V, B)
128. In order to reduce the emission of particulate matter must also be cross-border rail freight
expanded. To international freight goods we develop high-speed lines a
Alternatively, provide for the increasing truck traffic (eg Calais -Duinkerke -. Adinkerke - Ghent Ruhr). (E, F, V)
180

129. The EU encourages the freight transport by rail, coastal shipping and inland waterways. (E)
130. For urban distribution, we want to make more use of urban waterways or small electric
vans that travel within time windows. The base is a grid of multi-modal transfer points to the
outskirts of towns and cities such as City Depot, the project for sustainable urban distribution in Hasselt.
The Flemish freight route network in line with the distribution so that effectively no large trucks
more cross the cities. From the distribution drive small electric vans and bicycle couriers
the city. (V, B)
131. We carry out a location policy consistently and missing links by rail and water mains for us
priority. We especially pay attention to the possibilities of transfer. (F, V, B)
132. Green wants to contribute to a modernization of the Albert Canal and the locks. We also want to look for them
for good solutions for access to the port by rail. (F, F)
133. We can save a lot of mileage by promoting local production and consumption. (V, B)
134. We strictly enforce existing rules regarding loading and driving and rest with fines, also for the
client. (F)
135. There is further harmonization of the social rights of drivers place in the EU. (E)
136. We are investing in research on alternative energy sources (eg. Hydrogen) for freight. (E, V)
137. We put an end to the system of professional diesel. Currently, this corresponds to a reduction of
about 6 percent of the final price for diesel fuel transport companies in Belgium. This negative price signal
therefore provides an incentive rather away from energy-efficient vehicles instead of there. (F)

SUSTAINABLE PORT DEVELOPMENT
The most durable and the most economical choice is combined with production logistics. An industrial port
provides significantly more jobs than a port with only significant container operations. Our Flemish
ports must therefore pay more attention to production, not only for transshipment. The Scheldt even deeper
probably not possible, also ensures container enormous pressure on roads and on road safety, the
public health and the environment.
138. We therefore reorient economic support and innovation policy on greening and anchoring
of the industrial activities in ports. Developments in Gent are promising: energy and
materials flows are aligned, waste or waste from one company becomes the
raw material and energy of the other company. (V)
139. We choose quality infill rather than expansion. For a new dock and new
container terminals in the Saeftinghe Zone there is no place. The village Target does not have to disappear. It is still
still not too late to give it a new cultural and recreational destination. Thus, we also show that there is
an end has come to the knock-on approach which new polders and hamlets by the harbor
be invaded. (V)
140. We encourage better cooperation between the ports. In Flanders and around the Hamburg-Le Havre Range, so a bid to avoid investment in docks and infrastructure and there is no competition
happens at the expense of safety or the environment. (V, E)
141. The widening of Schipdonkcanal there will definitely not. There are other and better solutions for the
further development of the port of Zeebrugge: expansion of the estuary shipping (with reinforced
barges along the coast of the North Sea) and optimization and better utilization of freight
track. (V)
142. Clean ships - healthy ports and port cities. Shipping also provides a lot of air pollution. Especially
in port areas, this is a problem. (E, V)
i. Phased stricter standards for emissions from ships, as happened for cars and
trucks.
ii. The introduction of environmental zones for ships at ports to air pollution in port towns, but also in the
reduce ports themselves.
iii. To reduce air pollution back by the power of seagoing vessels and barges come in
all ports shore power sockets. The cleanest ships are given priority in European ports.
iv. Support for innovative developments in the field of cleaner engines, engine maintenance,
cleaner fuels and the use of filters.
v. We support the conversion of ships on HFO (heavy fuel oil) and MDO (marine diesel oil) for ever
more on LNG ships (cf. Flemish LNG study), but we do advocate strict regulations and
monitoring the bunkering of LNG into our ports.
vi. The EU conducts a CO2 tax on bunker oil for shipping.
181

143. Reduction of transport mileage and the availability of more environmentally friendly and egress
Criteria for the assessment of State aid to seaports. (E)

182

HEALTHY LIVING ENVIRONMENT
VISION
More and more people are - rightly - concerned about the impact of environmental pollution on their
health. This impact may indeed not be underestimated. Exposure to particulate matter
(PM 2.5) for example means for the average Belgian loss of life
from 13.2 months in urban areas such as Antwerp this is itself a
reduction of three years. The list of environmental threats to a healthy environment is
long: fine dust, radiation, pesticides, chemicals, ... The risk of cancer is in Flanders
the highest in the world. Scientists clearly establish a link between air pollution
and lung cancer, breast cancer, bladder cancer and kidney cancer.

The scientific evidence on the harmful effects of environmental pollution on
health is growing, but the policy is lagging behind. Moreover, people with lower
income more vulnerable to the effects of pollution because they are more common example next
busier thoroughfares live. Social inequality is therefore continuing further exposure
to air pollution. That is fundamentally unfair. Opt for sustainability is
choose righteousness: everyone should be able to enjoy a healthy environment.
Progressive environmental standards are therefore an immediate social policy. The standards
We tune into the health risks for the most vulnerable groups in society,
such as children, the elderly, pregnant women, asthma and heart patients.

Besides causing human suffering pollution also an important economic
impact. The estimate of the external health costs as a consequence of certain forms of
pollution go up to € 6.4 billion per year with fine dust as main
culprit. A strong government dares to strictly apply the precautionary principle in the form
strict standards so as to prevent environmental and health damage. On that
how we enable the transition to a sustainable and just society and
a low carbon economy.

In times of crisis, the Flemish Government sustainable development as a guiding principle
abandoned. Measures were taken put the focus on short-term savings.
For investments in the long term can cause structural changes
there was little space. While just focus on sustainable development to innovation and
competitiveness of our companies will strengthen and for sustainable and healthy
Job worries.

Until now wanted the environment especially limit the damage as much as possible and the 'usual'
pollution remediation as efficient as possible. That defensive attitude is no longer sufficient. For
a sustainable society, we have an ecological offensive and a new environmental policy
required. That environmental belittle, but an opportunity. We choose prevention and we
tackling environmental pollution at source. We strive for clean production, clean energy
and clean movements. Zero emissions in the long term is the norm, but that is only possible if
we choose structural change. Pioneers in this field, we support via the top runner model and we provide better information to consumers.

The government takes responsibility for stricter product policy and ensures
sustainable products. She slides that responsibility to the individual
consumer. Sustainable and healthy choices by individuals and businesses, we want to encourage
by focusing on green taxation that are cheaper and more sustainable choices
unsustainable choices expensive. So we expect the true environmental and health costs of
consumption and behavior in the cost of products and services. For the consumer,
183

To make it easier sustainable choices. Because of the cost in an environmentally harmful
conduct to rise, we create space for the cost of socially valuable
services, such as to be able to reduce labor. Where necessary we provide compensations
vulnerable groups through a reduction in other taxes, benefits or financial
support for adaptation measures.

PROPOSALS
1.

2.

3.

4.

5.

An integrated environmental management in excess of policy areas. We strive for an integrated policy
international, European, national, regional and local levels. In order to be able to environmental pollution at the source
Tackling is policy coordination of policy areas such as mobility and transport, agriculture,
planning and taxation crucial. Reconciliation happens too little today. Only by
more tuning can efficiency and effectiveness of the policy be increased. (F, V, B)
End 2013, Flemish Minister for Environment abolished the environmental agreement. However, this was an important
financing for local sustainability and environmental policy. Everywhere in Flanders therefore threaten
to die concrete actions in the field of water treatment, nature conservation and waste prevention. Green requires a
new formula to provide the local authorities enables their contribution to a healthy environment. (V)
Children and young people are more vulnerable when it comes to effects of environment on health. Green advocates
introducing a child norm, in order to bring the risks in that children today due to pollution
of their habitat. (F, V, B)
New momentum for the National Environment and Health Action Plan (NEHAP). Within NEHAP focus
we vulnerable groups. In a specific action plan child we provide priority action on air pollution,
transport noise and chemicals. A cooperation agreement between the federal and ensures the regions
funding for those actions. (F)
The people continue to inform and sensitize. To support the necessary behavior modification
we must work to increase information and awareness campaigns. (F, V, B)

MODERN HEALTH STANDARDS
6. The precautionary principle is central. As soon as scientific evidence that may be something harmful
, it must be occurred are found by progressive normalization or have to be an alternative. As long as
there are doubts about the safety of new substances are not widely applied. We fit
this precautionary principle to all environmental and product standards. (E, F, V, B)
7. Environmental and health standards we tune into the health risks to vulnerable groups
society, such as children, the elderly, pregnant women, asthma and heart patients ... We seek a
policy of chemical hygiene. (E, F)
8. Most standards go on emissions, while public health decisive exposure
is, we have to reverse that logic. For particulate matter are already European exposure limits, so standards
air that people breathe. If you exceed these limits will be fined by countries outside Europe. That
principle can be extended to many other types of pollution that damage health. (F, V, B)
9. Standards and limits should be regularly updated based on the latest
scientific knowledge. Today, however, we run the scientific facts chase. We know,
for example, that the current standards for fine particles do not comply. And also the noise to an
be modernized. The current approach based on average sound indicators does not account for the
problem of the frequency. (F, V, B)
10. Flemish biomonitoring continue and expand dare at national level and measures
take. Through biomonitoring, we have gained a lot of knowledge but too often the rub even on the
implementation of adequate (informative or normative) measures. Within the biomonitoring program
also fits a pilot project with environmental determinants include in the electronic medical record. We roll
a federal program of biomonitoring. (F, F)

BY TAX INCENTIVES POLLUTION FENCING
11. The Belgian taxes are among the highest in the world but from environmental taxes (taxes on energy,
transportation, pollution or the use of natural resources), there is little used. Green is
believes that the burden on labor must down while the charges on polluting
behavior upward. With green taxation let polluters now responsible to pay for the damage they
184

inflict. Also environmentally harmful products, services, or behavior we discouraged by fiscal measures (see
green taxation chapter in taxation). (F)
12. Subsidies that promote polluting behavior we abolish. At all levels, we take stock of
all grants, subsidies and other government support for products that pollute or contribute to polluting behavior.
We draw a path to phase out these subsidies at the latest by 2020 (for example, fuel cards and
favorable tax system for company cars as well as the exemption from excise duty for biofuels). (E,
F, V, B)

The environmental TAKES ON THE ENVIRONMENT
13. The strict division between planning and environment is outdated and therefore we find a good
matter to adopt a 'living environment' in which the building permit and the environmental permit
are joined together. This framework, however, also creates opportunities to come to a new, more
integrated thinking about planning and environmental quality. (V)
14. When the green of the competent authorities should depend on the environmental policies and
burden on the environment and health may declare certain projects. We see new applications
for the environmental permit. (V)
15. If it is decided on the construction or extension of, eg. Roads, in the context of the pre-us
environmental permit fully weigh the health aspect. When deciding on the construction of
hospitals, schools, day care centers, or needs to be taken into account the quality of environment, for example by
the layout of environment plans.
16. Crucial to the proper functioning of the environmental permit is a periodic evaluation. For by introduction
of the environmental permit, the environmental permit is permanent. Therefore, the environmental quality should certainly
do not go backwards. We ensure that the licenses periodically on the best available technologies
be adjusted. (V)
17. Local governments should be firmly supported, they are given additional tasks by the downgrading of
licenses that currently the provinces must be delivered. It can not be expected to
that every municipality has sufficient administrative capacity and environmental knowledge. (V).

ENVIRONMENT CIVIL RIGHTS - RESPECT OF THE SOCIETY
18. Public access to the information we effectively. Information should be in an accessible and
accessible manner be spread. (F, V, B)
19. We ensure adequate public participation in the elaboration of plans, programs and decisions.
(F, V, B)
20. We recognize the role of civil society organizations and ensure the necessary consultation capabilities. Operation
civil society organizations we support it with adequate resources. (V, B)
21. We want the lines of the Aarhus Convention through a clear directive citizens better access to the
obtain court in environmental matters. The complaint should also apply in the EU for associations,
thus no longer just individuals but also organizations to court and the Council of State
can step with a complaint about negligence at local or national level. All too often
lawsuits from environmental groups rejected because of a lack of a "personal" interest. An important if
Pure air is by definition no personal interest but a collective interest. (E, F)
22. Environmental Associations have direct access to the European Court of Justice. (E)
23. Manufacturers are always fully responsible for the products they bring to market. People
who get sick suffer as a result of pollution or environmental damage have a right to a fair
compensation. We remain committed to a full compensation of all
asbestos victims. (F)
24. Individuals who together are the victim of a case of "mass tort" can a court action together
create, set up a "class action". Green filed a bill on this subject during the
past term. The government adopted the proposal, but added an important limitation to it. In
Contrary to what suggested Green, the group claim in the new scheme could only be done through a
recognized consumer, who must be a legal entity and only for consumer affairs. Green wants
these restrictions drop, because they unduly restricts the rights of consumers. (F)

185

SUSTAINABLE AND SAFE PRODUCTS
25. We are committed to ambitious product standards. These standards are moving in time and well in advance
known. Producers can then anticipate them in their research programs and their investment policies.
Who does better than the standard, extra rewards and the most sustainable product or the best technology
over time, the new standard. (F)
26. Member States may introduce rules which are stricter than the EU standards and it is likely that this favorable
impact on the environment, health, consumer protection and animal welfare, and there is no
disguised protectionism. (E)
27. We want to evolve into a complete and integrated product policy aimed at closing
material cycles. This means that there are already located at the design stage is taken into account how the product after
phase re-use as a raw material can be used. Besides the environmental aspect, there is also best attention to
social and health aspects of the production process. (F)
28. The Ecodesign Directive is due for a revision. The new Directive focuses not only on
energy but is extended to other forms of environmental impact such as reusability,
recoverability and the presence of chemical substances, etc. The production processes, we take as well as in
the assessment. (E)
29. Compliance guarantee of the standards. At European and national level, we provide sufficient manpower and
financial resources in order to follow the standards development and compliance with standards
check. (E, F)
30. Labels can promote sustainable consumption if they are credible. We therefore advocate
strict eligibility criteria and control. (E, F)
31. Greenwashing counter and the negative impact of advertising on the environment and our health
reduce. Today there is no independent control authority that oversees environmental claims in advertising
and / or made on product packaging. Advertising for polluting products we build
tires (for example, for pesticides directed to private individuals). Marketing practices that lead to
overconsumption want to go in consultation with the sectors. (F)
32. In addition to stringent regional emission standards for cellular towers we want to make it work
maximally reduce radiation of electrical equipment by applying the top runner model. The five
best models set the standard. (F)
33. Green wants to ban the use of preventive antibiotics in livestock. We implement to
Dutch model a plan to reduce antibiotics in livestock. It is important to set up
a central database in which the use of antibiotics by sector and by company is closely monitored
so that the greatest abuses be mapped. Intensive and preventive use of antibiotics leads to
resistant bacterial strains not only the livestock and aquaculture stock can decimate but
mutants which are difficult to treat (and possibly fatal) bacterial diseases in humans
cause because these antibiotics eventually end up on our plates. (F)
34. genetically modified organisms GMOs that end up in our store shelves, we want a balanced
Enter labeling requirement. So are these products come from animals that were with GMOs
fed, clearly recognizable to the consumer. Green likewise precludes the release of genetically
modified organisms in our environment (GMOs), partly because of the high risk of infecting non-ggoorganismen. (E)
35. The standards that ensure reduced emissions of pollutants in indoor air from building materials,
interior decoration and furniture should be strengthened and certainly also consider combined
effects. For products that affect indoor air quality, we are developing an AD-labeling
depending on the pollutant emissions (type VOCs) into the indoor air. (E, V, B)
36. There is a need for stricter admission policy and control policy for pesticides. The use of pesticides
is being phased out in the public domain, at home and in agriculture. Natural control methods
are supported. (F, V, B)
37. The European Commission will have its own environmental inspection for the enforcement by Member States better
can control. They will have the power to impose fines on Member States directly. (E)

CLEAN AIR

The European Commission has sent Belgium to the European Court because we do not meet the
air quality standards in terms of fine dust, Belgium has not been granted an extension because we take sufficient measures to
particulate matter emissions control and reduction. For the emissions of acidifying nitrogen oxides (NOx)
we sit above the European set ceiling. Research by the Flemish Environment Agency (VMM) that the
186

limit value in 10 of the 13 cities is exceeded. In particular, at locations with high traffic, there is a problem.
Especially nitrogen oxides from diesel vehicles provide all kinds of respiratory disease, contributing to the formation
the ozone and thus for health care. They are also responsible for a
accelerated weathering of historic buildings, reduced crop yields and the decline
of woodland, heathland and nature reserves. About half of the NOx-emission is obtained from transport and especially of
diesel vehicles.
38. We want Europe sets higher standards when it comes to air quality. Flanders and Brussels as hot
spots of bad air have all benefited from advanced standards. Air pollution does not stop when the
border and it's true that a lot of air pollution comes from outside Belgium. Today lie
European limit values ​​for particulate matter (25μg / m³ PM2.5) above the values ​​recommended by the
World Health Organization (10μg / m³ of PM 2.5) but also above the values ​​for instance in the US
used (12μg / m³). So if we achieve the European standards means that certainly improve the situation
but wants is not to say that the health of man and nature protected. And unfortunately, we get even
current European standards do not. For particulate matter, the EC has already referred Belgium to the European Court and also
for nitrogen oxides threat of a penalty procedure. The clean air standards are gradually tightened
to at least comply with the guidelines of the World Health Organisation. (E)
39. Knowledge is power. Children at the center of the policy also means air pollution at nose level
measure the children. (V, B)
40. Air quality plans we reviewed because half measures are not sufficient to to the problem
fit. An air quality plan must define priorities in the implementation and periodic follow-up and
between assessments provided. Furthermore, budgetary implications and cost-effectiveness of measures need
are indicated. All those conditions satisfy the Flemish plan and not the evolution of the measurements
air pollution show that we will not achieve our objectives in that way. Air pollution
Of course not stop at (regional) boundaries and take half measures as well as other regions in the
compromised. This would have a widening of the Brussels Ring adverse health effects, not only
for residents of the periphery but also in the Brussels Capital Region. (V)
41. We address the problem at the source. All other measures swabs for bleeding. We have
an integrated approach with actions in the fields of industry, agriculture, energy, the
We heat our homes and how we move ourselves and our goods. We go for clean production,
clean energy and clean movements. Zero-emission is the target standard. In the short term, we put big
steps forward by focusing on less traffic and fewer diesel cars. Therefore we do the fine dust
greenhouse stickstofoxiden decline effective. (F, V, B)
a. The tax system sends traffic to less polluting vehicles and modes of transport.
b. Smart road pricing we are accelerating in all vehicles, including passenger car. The
Rates are modulated depending on the environmental performance of the vehicle, where and when you drive.
c. Emergency measures in smog alarm such as a reduction of speed limits to 90 km / h and temporarily
driving bans have time and again proved their worth. We choose permanent speed restrictions
smog-prone areas to avoid high pollution peaks.
d. Environmental zones (low emission zones) can be a measure for the situation in urban areas
correct but should be embedded in policies that work makes a real transition to sustainable
mobility. In time, polluting petrol and diesel cars are banned from the inner cities (E).
e. Cyclists and pedestrians have a central position in the mobility policy. Quality (green) public
transport is a real alternative to the car for longer distances. This requires investment in
infrastructure, rolling stock and the operation of public transport.
f. Sustainable mobility also demands that we deal differently with our space and follow a strict location policy.
Proximity is indeed the most environmentally friendly mobility.
g. The standards for particulates and other pollutants emissions from cars, vans and trucks are
tightened.
42. Residents of areas with polluted air have the right to enforce an action plan for air quality
of their local government. (E)
43. In order to reduce air pollution in and around our port areas comes in all ports shore power. The
cleanest ships have priority in European ports. (E, V)
44. Even when the industry is still much progress as possible. Research on the best available technology let
by faster in general and sectoral environmental conditions that must comply with all companies. (V, B)
45. Healthy and ecological construction is the norm for Green. For this purpose, it is important that binding ecological
criteria are for construction so that it no longer pollute the indoor climate. (E, F)
46. ​​Improving indoor air quality in schools and childcare. The government proposes a package of
simple guidelines together for teachers and traps, such as regular airing of the class or
187

space, and sufficient polishing the choice of healthy materials and toys. Young children stay for a
Much of their time in childcare or (nursery) classes. It is important that environment as healthy
may be taken into account. Through education, the principle of physico-chemical hygiene
passed on to our children. (V, B)
47. Where vulnerable groups stay longer (childcare, schools, homes, hospitals) organizes
public indoor measurement campaign. We want to identify indoor air quality. In a
second step, the government is working on a program of stakeholder indoor air with
concrete measures to improve indoor air quality. (V, B)

LESS NOISE
One Fleming in three is exposed to excessive noise levels and also in Brussels makes noise for a
reduced quality of life. Silence is not an unnecessary luxury but important for our health. Noise makes for a
increased blood pressure, stress and depression, learning disabilities in children, premature deaths ... Green wants attention
For a quieter environment: less noise, aircraft, traffic, sound installations, from businesses. The
main source of noise pollution is traffic in Flanders. Because of our spatial disorder and us
dense road network is the number of people exposed to too much noise is also greater than the average in Europe.
Noise is omnipresent during the day but also at night. An alarming fact considering that the human ear never
sleep and our body always responds to noise stimuli as a form of danger. A quality sleep is however a
conditio sine qua non for maintaining our physical and mental integrity.
48. The previous legislature continued measures to combat noise pollution from. The policy has more or less
the problem just mapped. Additional measures to address the structural problem
not be taken out there. We want to make out real noise action plans. Europe requires such restructuring plans
anyway al. (V)
49. Sound Action plans have standards (new) measures to control noise and clear
provide budgets. (V)
50. Who do to solve this problem by placing noise barriers is on the wrong track. Moreover
sound barriers can cause particulates strikes spread further. Flanders needs more
budgets to combat noise at source and structural. Thus, by the covering of the
Antwerp ring road noise around the ring once be thoroughly addressed. At the same time, we can in that
way also create space Antwerp urgently needed (for more green space and sound
residences to realize). (V)
51. The source approach is still too much neglected. Measures to encourage modal shift, so
more people get out of the car, will also have a positive effect on the noise. The
Public transport maximizing investment in silent vehicles with sustainable drives. The noise
for cars and trucks we further tightening. (E, V, B)
52. A separate problem is the night flights at Zaventem both the Edge and the densely populated
Areas in Brussels at night overflown. We call for a ban on night flights at European
level. If this is not possible, the federal government should be a roadmap for phasing out
Formatting night flights so that by the end of the legislature no more night flights take place
between 23h and 6am. By setting a ban on night flights we guarantee decent people
sleep, vital to their health. (F, E)
53. There will also be clear for the airport noise standards which are common to all regions and based on
the guidelines of the World Health Organisation. (F, V, B)
54. Also at the train traffic we have higher noise requirements and we make a noise remediation program at (cf.
train noise action plan). Both invested in quieter material as soundproofing infrastructure, there
additional resources will be allocated to. (F, F)
55. Also, the noise nuisance for local residents caused by large public events such as music festivals,
requires special attention. Prior to the event must actively seek gone to how the
sleep for resident can be guaranteed. (V, B)
56. Complaints about noisy children and youth are sometimes justified, but can be avoided by
considered spatial and human interventions. Green seeks more than symptom management, and focuses on
prevention and structural solutions. (V, B)
57. We also want to work towards the creation of more quiet areas for people seeking peace. (V, B)

188

CHEMICALS
58. We come in daily life with more and more chemicals in touch. These are not always
innocent, and even carcinogenic. We want better protection against hazardous substances. The
EU rules for the protection of people and the environment from toxic substances remain on the real dangers.
We reject the use of hazardous substances in food, cosmetics, toys and other everyday
its products. We want a consistent implementation of the EU chemicals policy REACH (Regulation on
Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals) in order to improve the physical-chemical hygiene. (E)
59. The risk assessment of chemicals should also take into account interactions between substances. The
risk assessment for existing (chemical) substances is still largely based on the analysis of
each separate substance. But this approach is too simplistic, many substances are mutually reinforcing. That means a
underestimation of the risk to our health. So these enhancing effects to be charged
will be the norm. (E, F)
60. Replacement Duty for dangerous chemicals. Belgium commits itself actively in the identification of
SVHCs and supports Belgian businesses in replacing these substances. Special
attention we give to SVHCs, endocrine disruptors, cocktail effects of chemicals
combinations and nanomaterials. (E, F)
61. We therefore need more knowledge about the health hazards of chemicals and attract more
resources for research. We encourage further research into the impact of chemical substances, especially
the effects of prolonged exposure to low doses and cocktail effects (interactions between substances)
there is insufficient knowledge. (E, F)
62. We want to improve the right to information on dangerous products. People who
health problem incur by hazardous substances in consumer products earn more
support. (E, F)
63. The consumer information on very high concern chemicals in products must complete and easier.
(E, F)

Endocrine disruptors
64. We reduce the risks of exposure to endocrine disrupters. The government provides clear
information and comprehensive guidelines on the impact of chemicals and endocrine disruptors
limiting children, classrooms and kindergartens. (V, B)
65. Most consumers are not yet aware of the presence of endocrine disruptors in everyday
products. Good information about this can do much to reduce exposure to these substances.
Unborn and young children are particularly vulnerable. They are being developed and (prenatal) exposure
to endocrine disruptors can disrupt the early development and have great impact on
later life. Danish example we want young and pregnant women better informed about
plasticizers and endocrine disruptors. (V, B)
66. We are working on an ambitious European strategy for endocrine disruptors. Submit clear
scientific criteria established for the identification of endocrine disrupters. We
promote the maximum replacement by standards and by the development of alternative
supporting products / services. (E, F, V)
67. Develop indicators specific to children's exposure to endocrine disrupting chemicals (and
other chemicals) to detect. (V)
68. The sale of baby bottles with Bisphenol A has rightly been banned in our country. This ban was in 2013
expanded into food containers for children under 3 years. For Green may ban a step further
go. We want to expand the ban to food packaging in general but certainly packs
especially on children and young people Marketed. (F)

NANOMATERIALS
Insidious, and without public debates nanotechnologies are deployed. These technologies offer great opportunities but
also contain large risks. Especially in areas that are close to the consumer, such as food, cosmetics and textiles,
We want to tackle potential risks as early as possible to avoid a repeat of the asbestos tragedy.
69. The EU rules for the safe use of nanotechnology. We demand a broad debate on all
nanotechnology applications and the strict implementation of the precautionary principle. There is a need for a
189

specific legal framework for nanotechnology. The uncontrolled and unexamined marketing of
nanoproducts must end. Nano Products in areas close to the consumer may not be on the
market, so long as there is no appropriate test methods are available and risks without doubt
are excluded. (E)
70. We oppose commercialization of products and materials with nanoparticles without a
preliminary risk assessment which takes proper account of the potential of different properties
substances at the nanoscale. There should be more funding coming to risk research. We also require a uniform
recognizable labeling of nanoproducts. (E, F, V)
71. Starting a federal register of manufactured nanomaterials makes these materials traceable.
This allows us to react quickly and take products off the market if let new risk estimates
prove that certain nanomaterials pose a health hazard. (F)
72. We are developing clear rules on liability and ensure retrievability. (F)

PESTICIDES
73. Federal reduction program for further implementation pesticides. We emphasize a
reducing the use and risks of biocides. This requires increased monitoring of biocidal products on the
terrain. (F)
74. biocides is a compulsory declaration stating that they must be out of reach of children
and held that they should not be used during pregnancy, women who are breastfeeding
and in the presence of young children. (E, F)
75. Private individuals may only access through a qualified vendor to pesticides in the store. (F)
76. We want a ban on neonicotinoids and other pesticides that cause death of bee colonies. (E, F)
77. We wish that there be clear limits to be set for pesticide residues in foods.
In addition, finally, there must also be taken into account the multiple load by different
pesticide residues. The EU must take a more active role in protecting people from dangerous
pesticides. Dangerous pesticides should simply be prohibited. (E)

HEALTHY SOIL
Decades of pollution have saddled us with contaminated soils. Some highly contaminated soils
even pose a serious threat to the health of local residents. Soil pollution also threatens the
groundwater. Also less heavily contaminated soils must urgently be cleaned up to the disposal back
stand for re-use. In this way we prevent the cutting of open space. Unfortunately shoot remediation
insufficient. The budgets spent by the Flemish government were to fall too low in soil remediation.
Once promised was that all harmful historical soil pollution in Flanders would be remedied by 2036. Against
the current rate, we will certainly not achieve this objective and we push the problems into the future.
78. We want to give back more incentives for soil remediation. Ground and space are scarce resources
Flanders. Investing in soil creates jobs and new space to take new space to
live or new space for nature. (V)
79. There should be provided more funds for ex officio remediation. But the government should certainly
can call co-financing projects with the private sector through '
brownfield projects. For the decontamination of heavily contaminated soils (black fields) where the private sector not
has an interest in soil remediation fund is set up, to which contribute all major emitters.
Through more brown and black fields to make clean, we at the same time protect pristine areas (green
fields). (V)
80. The current government has an entire legislature redone to make it a cooperation agreement on
fuel tank fund to come. Now that the agreement is we can finally individuals to financially support
to deal with soil contamination have. We use the surplus of the previous
Soil Remediation Fund stations. The problems of the past must be solved now, too
for people who no longer want with fuel oil firing. (V)
81. In addition, we also want a program to the erosion in the erosion-prone areas underway
bring. A local coordinator monitors erosion on the erosion. Reduced fertility and
petrification as well as his concerns. (V)

190

CLEAN WATER
It is a basic right: clean and affordable drinking water, clean water to swim in, rainwater without toxic residues,
reliable water as a raw material for (food) production, clean streams and rivers as arteries healthy
nature.
Green will considerably improve the quality of our surface and groundwater. We have our committed by the
approval of the European Water Framework Directive.
Yet the end of 2013. Belgium was sentenced to a fine of ten million euros for default suburban
water purification. Yet Flanders does not attach due importance to the European water deadlines. Water quality
our rivers has improved, but this improvement was slowed or even stopped in recent years. The measures that the
improve water quality will not make progress:
• The manure policy is not sufficiently efficient. The number of MAP-points that exceeds the nitrate standard dropped
During the legislative session barely and the average phosphorus concentration has very little improvement.
• The water treatment policy does not come from the ground, the water purification plants are almost all built but
the connection of the sewage system can not follow (funding gap of 3.1 billion for the period 2013-2027)
• The implementation of the river basin and basin management plans has been delayed. A whole list of
spearhead areas are not running. (Also here is a lack of resources and capacity bottlenecks.)

POLLUTION TO GO
82. We are working on a new ambitious Fertiliser Action Plan (MAP V). The Nitrates Directive has been around since 1991
force with the aim of reducing water pollution caused by the use of fertilizers in agriculture.
Almost a quarter century after our date include water quality (ground and surface) is still the
worst in Europe. That includes the high phosphate concentrations. Consequently, the European has
Commission us end 2013 censured because the water quality improves in agriculture too slow. In
The new MAP V we provide stricter fertilization where standards have not been met so far.
It takes into account the possibilities of the soil (about phosphorus). Moreover, we build a
effective enforcement of control and sanctions. (V)
83. The immediate cause of the poor water quality livestock. In Flanders, eight times more meat
produced than the Fleming consume. As a result, the Flemish livestock manure produces more than
Agricultural soils can handle. According to the source principle, we have to take steps to livestock off
build. Subsidies that encourage the development of livestock even more environmentally harmful and we put
Stop. (V)
84. The federal government is investigating the value of a tax on the surplus of nitrogenous
fertilization, on mineral nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium. (F)

WATER TREATMENT POLICY
85. In recent years, there was substantial investment in water treatment plants but the polluted water
there do not end by a lack of sewer systems. And so is still 20% of the waste water in our rivers
discharged. Flanders should support local governments more financially and politically, we want
create an opportunity to meet the ultimate deadline in 2027 and thus avoid a penalty of Europe. (V)
86. Regarding funding, not only have more resources and be provided by local authorities
(there is a structural budget deficit of about 300 million euros per year) but should
resources is also given targeted:
a. A report by the Flemish Environment Agency (VMM) that the reorganization grant is not integral
used for sewage, there has to change. If it depends on the allowed us
sanitation contribute therefore not increase.
b. Rio fund we adapt them for sewer system in the long term gain clarity over the resources
are available.
c. Sewage works we make more enforceable by the Rio-fund with the Field Covering Implementation
Link (Water Framework Directive) and Asset Management.
d. Rainwater is still too often the sewers and collectors disposed instead of the-spot infiltration. The
bill for water treatment and therefore runs on additional pollution threatens overflows. The introduction of a
avoidable contribution on the disposal of rainwater can be a stimulus here rainwater on site
To infiltrate. But who pays solves the drainage make an additional contribution to the development and
maintenance of the stormwater system participates in the financing.
191

87. Enforcement of the discharge regulations. There enforcement decree exists but we apply it
effectively increasing. (V)
88. Rainwater we run too fast today, which creates an overload of our sewer and rivers.
Canal systems we want to restore honor and so the rainwater slowly drain and allow infiltration.
Municipalities should be able to appeal before gain Flemish subsidies because the savings in the
sewage causes. (V)
89. To avoid the additional risks due to climate change Flanders urgently needs space
create water. Municipalities should pay even more attention to managing rainwater. To head
to offer larger and more extreme rainfall we need in Flanders on average 20 to 30
% Additional buffer zones provided. Therefore we encourage to make municipal stormwater plans. (V)

PURE WATER AT A FAIR PRICE
90. Drinking water is a basic right and so for us the public good. Drinking water may also not be privatized for us
be. (V, B)
91. In order to avoid that the cost of the "preparation" of drinking water continues to rise, the Flemish can
government even tougher action to prevent pollution of drinking water and groundwater (eg. with pesticides or
fertilizers) to prevent. (V)
92. The aquifers in Flanders suffer from overexploitation. Companies and individuals we want to enable
to make more use of rainwater and especially "gray" water. We also want to encourage companies to frugal
jumping with water even if the water comes from its own catchment. To return to our aquifers
Filling we take action to ensure that more rainwater infiltration. Then it thus mainly about
measures to discourage the construction of paved surfaces. (V)
93. Green requires a uniform and lower price of drinking water for all Flemings. Certainly the basic operating. By
The establishment of more progressive taxes, it can be ensured that those who truly smost with water, or in
higher tax bands ends up. 70,000 households are not equipped with sewers and sewage treatment plants, but
a solution is sought through IBA's (individual management) or possibly small
water treatment plants (KWZI's). The government may pass on these costs in full families as
she is partly responsible for the poor planning which now leads to higher costs for all sewage
to collect and purify. Who settles today outside the defined treatment zones, needs a
to pay part of its own water purification with. (V)

INTEGRATED WATER POLICY: MORE SPACE FOR WATER
94. Sigma Plans are plans that recover restore old floodplains. The implementation of the
Sigma plans are delayed partly because budgets are not released. We provide sufficient
funding for this socially important projects. (V)
95. The Land Use Act was an important step to bring water back to give more space. Consolidation in
force of the law should allow hard to destinations in flood-prone areas
trade to destinations in non-flood prone areas. We ensure that this principle also in the
practice is employed. Where possible, this goes along with nature. (V)

LESS RADIATION
Because science can estimate the long-term effects are still insufficient advocates to make Green
precautionary principle to handle and radiation to reduce as much as possible. Some even make the comparison with
asbestos where only no longer be denied after several decades that there was a direct link between asbestos and cancer
exists.

96. We want to reduce exposure to the so-called non-ionizing radiation, with particular attention to
vulnerable groups. For example, children, but also people who are extra sensitive to chemicals or
radiation. That is why we want to tighten up the existing Flemish norm. There was much discussion about Brussels
norm of 3V / m for mobile phone masts as well as the Health Council recommends the norm. Although the new
Brussels standard above 3V / m is Brussels is still stricter radiation than Flanders. Strict standards
stimulate innovation and new technological developments and alternatives that reduce radiation
we make up to standard. (V)
97. We intensify the information and awareness campaigns on the risks of using wireless
technologies, especially among vulnerable groups (infants, children and adolescents). (F, V, B)
192

98. The siting of masts should be done under a wide participation. Places near schools,
childcare and hospitals we free up values. (V, B)

AF WASTE
A region that is poor in natural resources can only win by focusing on sustainable materials policy.
Therefore, the strict application of the hierarchy for the waste processing is an important guiding principle: prevention,
reuse, recycling, energy generation, landfill.
99. In the previous legislature the Materials Decree was approved. We want to continue to implement this decree.
Plastic waste, waste incineration and processing of organic waste are important topics. (V)
100. We encourage the conclusion of the plastic recycled by the recycling target for plastic waste
sensitive to pull up, and to enter a target for re-use. (V)
101. We immediately put a moratorium on additional waste incineration. We propose a
roadmap for reduction of combustion activities. The pricing policy should be adapted accordingly
that recycling more attractive than incineration. (V)
102. We set targets for separate collection and treatment of biodegradable waste (GFT).
(V, B)
103. For organic waste (kitchen waste, organic waste from catering and food industry) we put a last resort
(as feed for livestock has priority) to fermentation. From the digestate can new materials
produced for agriculture (compost, soil conditioner, fertilizer). (V)
104. There will be a disposal for new ships. This charge feeds a fund after end
life is paid for the responsible scrapping. (E)
105. The largest amount of waste is construction and demolition waste. Here we go for 100% recycling. Via selective
demolition specifications are hazardous materials removed. By setting the bar too high for the reuse of building materials
laying, a lot of damage to the environment can also be prevented by the extraction of primary building materials (sand,
gravel, small, clay) and can be tightened standards for reclamation. (V, B)

ASBESTOS
Given the long latency time of the asbestos-related diseases in our country is the main part of the
claims expected in the period from 2015 to 2020. We need to make quick work of an improved position
asbestos relative to the polluters. We remain committed to a full compensation of all
asbestos victims.
106. It can not be that asbestos is still produced in countries where asbestos has not been banned and even
being exported to developing countries. We are no longer any exceptions on the import of asbestos and
there will be a ban on the export of asbestos to developing countries. (E)
107. There will be a fund for the responsible recycling of discarded ships. (E)
108. We establish a central register of asbestos in the presence of asbestos in buildings, factories, schools
and so on maps. The information already exists but is still distributed and not centralized. (V, B)
109. We carry a premium in asbestos removal. The premium can be financed by the asbestos fund
partly fed by the government and partly by the asbestos companies. (F, V, B)
110. The asbestos fund we want to review. Green has been in the House for a bill submitted. The
reform includes: (F)
a. We apply the polluter pays principle asbestos producers and -plaatsers must bring contributions
financing the Asbestos fund. Victims who received the fund should still seek the money
court can take steps to ask for more.
b. Lung cancer is recognized as asbestos disease as the presence of asbestos fibers in the lungs is
determined.
c. Diseases caused by asbestos exposure sometimes manifest themselves only after many years. As a result, the
current 20-year period within which you can configure an application for compensation too short. With this
new proposal which increased to 50 years.

ENVIRONMENTAL
111. The enforcement of environmental policy still leaves much to be desired. Municipalities having an urgent need
more support to do the first level checks. But also the Flemish environmental inspection
more resources and leeway given for repeated and targeted control actions. (V)
193

112. Working with administrative sanctions is good, but also prosecution by the court is and remains necessary
disincentive to work. Who makes a profit by taxing environment and health, should never be there without due
punishment can get away with. (F)

194

NATURE AND BIODIVERSITY
VISION
Green stands up for the conservation of nature and biodiversity in Flanders. Even more,
we want to restore lost biodiversity and actively develop new nature.

That's necessary. First and foremost for our own sake. We need plenty of greenery in
our neighborhood, in living nature and woods within walking and cycling distance. Nature works
sedative, doing exercise and prevents obesity. By investing in and near
nature accessible to everyone we keep people fit and healthy. Investing does in nature
the cost to the health care drop sensitive. Studies prove it. Trees and green
capture fine dust, they produce oxygen, they provide shade and shelter.

But nature and biodiversity also has an economic function. Nature provides
"Ecosystem services". Nature provides food, clothing, building materials. Keep plants
water, and soil resistant and play an important role in the homeostasis. Trees absorb CO 2
on. Nature plays such an important role in the fight against climate change. A
myriad small creatures ensures the fertility of the soil. Insects provide
pollination of plants. A rich variety of plants and animals is not only
important because it's prettier and more colorful, but also because so different life cycles
are held in position.

Investing in nature restoration and the development of new nature is certainly not
economic losses. On the contrary. Even economists have since abandoned the idea that
you can only create wealth and jobs by destroying nature and
biodiversity can wither. The opposite is true. The future belongs to new green
wealth and green jobs through the preservation and restoration of open space, landscapes,
living soil, water tables and water storage, genetic diversity, natural
resources and the preservation and development of new nature.

That way we can help shape a new economic sector
nature developers by the government, managers of regional landscapes or
urban forests or supported by the private sector (agriculture, tourism, catering, real estate) and
be reimbursed for ecological services provided. In this way hundreds
new green jobs created or threatened jobs (eg. in agriculture) retained
remain.

This certainly applies to the policy on the North Sea: coastal defense and nature
can go together and reinforce one another.

Animals are part of nature that we want to give new growth opportunities. Animals have
own rights. We choose an agriculture that respects the rights and switches
Friendly for cultivation. We want to avoid animal suffering, but most of the animals back
give space in nature.

AN OFFENSIVE nature policy: CHOOSE MORE AND MORE NATURAL FOREST
Flanders is one of the regions with the least natural and forest in Europe. In recent years we sat with nature and forest
the defensive. Green wants to reverse the odds and choose plenty for an offensive nature.
195

ROOM FOR NATURE
1.

There is a sustainability standard for space usage to avoid altogether Flanders 'petrified' and
all green and nature disappear. Economical use of space and a hardening stop are included as criteria in
the Policy Space Flanders. Through a smart densification policy in cities but also in the outlying
we'll just free up more open space. (V)
2. In the Spatial Structure Plan was established that in Flanders 48 000 ha of natural and
forest recovers. That is just one-third succeeded. There is an urgent need to catch up. (V)
3. Flanders needs protection from larger units nature. By 2019, the Flemish Ecological
Network completely demarcated. And work will be recreated from nature verwevingsgebieden. We
extra stimuli like in order to achieve a network of areas for nature that pass through all spatial
destination zones run. (V)

MANAGING NATURE: A JOB FOR GOVERNMENT AND FOR VOLUNTEERS
4. The Flemish Region chooses again for a more active own purchasing. At the same time we want the
environmental associations will also have more resources to acquire and manage nature. In exchange, the judge
government results in terms of biodiversity. Every year, the area under effective conservation by 3000
ha should increase. One third of this can be done by the environmental associations. The subsidies
nature of the land management organizations are geared to the actual costs. (V)
5. Along with the natural movement we strive for larger contiguous nature areas, in order to get well
Flanders back to restore a piece of 'wilderness' and also offer back room for larger species.
(V)

VALUABLE PROTECT FORESTS
6. So-called "designated zone forests and nature" are protected in land use plans. Really
precious ancient forests, we want to protect immediately by decree. As happened with the previous
dunes. It is a shame that in recent years valuable old forests without more could be felled.
That can for us any longer. (V)
7. The reforestation obligation can not be bought off. Who cuts a forest must effectively reforest, in the
immediate surroundings, prior to the deforestation. (V)
8. There will be a better protection for valuable city trees. Trees contribute to the viability of
our cities are easy to cut. There will be a charter trees (legal protection of trees) and
A separate service within the Forest and Nature Agency, which oversees the preservation of valuable trees. (V)
9. Funds from the Tropical Bosfonds again substantially increased. This fund was by the current
Government phased out. For Green, it is important that Flanders also makes a real contribution to the
development of forests in poor countries in the South. (V)
10. Wood from illegal logging is banned. We rely on all levels using durable
harvested timber with a FSC-label (FSC = Forest Stewardship Council). (E, V, B)
11. Europe, Flanders and Belgium invest in NATURA2000 areas. (E, V, B)

QUALITY OF NATURE
By the fragmentation of space and great environmental impact, so does the quality of our nature continues to decrease. A
third of plant and animal species is struggling to survive in Flanders. Not only is there a need for more
nature, but also in nature, which is richer, with a greater variety of species.

TYPES OF PROTECTION
12. Species to be protected by taking appropriate measures for vulnerable species and by
natuurverbinding strips provide for species that migrate under pressure from global warming. (V, B)
13. The many types of roads care in Flanders fragmentation of what is left to nature. We want
managers need to weigh for defragmentation by working with wildlife overpasses, ecotunnels, grids, ... And that
they provide an ecological management of the embankments. (V)
14. The Flemish government is still working on the definition of European conservation objectives
species and habitats (habitats of species). That is painfully slow. And for most of those
196

goals we score still very poor. More than half of the species (34 to 59) and three-quarters of the
habitats have an unfavorable conservation status. By 2019, a significant backlog surgery
Need: 67 000 ha Natura 2000 site will be managed according to the European conservation objectives,
at least 20 European protected species and 16 habitats have by then a favorable ecological status
achieved. (V)
15. In Flanders and Brussels, an active policy for the preservation and reintroduction of species. (V, B)
16. The Flemish government aims for environmental quality tailored to the most vulnerable people in the population
(eg. children, elderly). Similarly, we must take into account the nature of the most vulnerable
species. So we demand a separate action plans for the protection of bees and butterflies. Pesticides which lead
prohibit mortality of bee colonies. There will be support for plantations or special butterfly friendly.
(E, V, B)

MORE QUALITY OF NATURE THROUGH A BETTER ENVIRONMENT
17. The achievement of good water quality is of great importance. The concentrations of phosphorus and nitrogen
to be reduced. By 2018, the water quality objective for the network of the Fertiliser Action Plan
achieved. An end is put to the relaxation of the permit to stop factory farming. We
opt for a reduction of the pig population. (V)
18. Sustainable agriculture is based on the carrying capacity of ecosystems and is an enrichment for nature. The
reduction of pesticides and fertilizers in agriculture is also necessary for biodiversity. This can be through more
use of natural pesticides and fertilization methods. Nature rhymes with organic farming. The
percentage of organic crops will be increased at least by 2019 to the European average (5.6%).
(V)
19. There will be better monitoring and approach of intrusive alien species and more support for ecological
Combating old and new plant and animal pests. (V, B)

Nature IS GOOD FOR THE CLIMATE
More nature helps to fight climate change, but also to the effects of climate change on
catch. Nature can store CO2, can serve as a buffer against flooding and can also provide cooling.

NATURE AND PROTECTS AGAINST CLIMATE CHANGE OCCURS
CLIMATE CHANGE
20. An offensive nature policy is also needed to meet the climate goals at home. Forest and
nature lay solid CO2. Also living soils hold much carbon fixed. Why is it that so sorry
Flanders as little nature and forest counts and that impoverish our soils. (V)
21. Nature protect us from the effects of climate change. They may serve as
multifunctional environment buffers. (V)

NATURE AND WATER
22. By investing in natural floodplains upstream, the Flemish Government can our homes
and companies keep dry. Nature and green retain water in the soil. The integrated water policy
Flemish Government can therefore easily be combined with a policy of nature. By
to ensure that water can infiltrate our soils are irrigated, and the water resources
underground replenished. (V)
23. This can best be done through the creation of a blue green network throughout Flanders marbled.
For this it is necessary that the SIGMA plan is fully implemented. The plan will provide plenty of extra space
for water. River basin management plans and basin management opting them for new nature. The
development of nature in stream valleys is stimulated. (V)
24. The Flemish government provides less paved area. Existing paved surfaces are
disconnected (streets, parking lots, industrial sites, but also roofs of houses and sheds). New
pavements be compensated for by annealing in other places, and since the risk of water back to
give to seep through into the ground. (V)

197

NATURE provides shelter
25. Nature can also provide cooling. By investing in large areas of nature and water in and around the
city ​​government, the temperature can be sensitive and thus bring down the heat island effect
counter. Municipalities that collect streams of concrete pipes and return above ground, get support. (V,
B)
26. Trees are a good remedy against fine dust, but also provide shade. With a correct choice of species, and a
proper siting along roads and around buildings can ill effects (such as an accumulation of fine dust,
the so-called street canyon effect) should be avoided, and can even save a lot of energy for air conditioning
(in buildings where trees shade provides natural coolness and light shield). (V, B)

NATURE FOR EVERYONE
Everyone is entitled to nature in his or her neighborhood. Because nature is healthy and offers opportunities for gentle recreation. Especially the
most vulnerable groups need more green.
27. There are standards established by decree for green in everyone's neighborhood. So green in your neighborhood is a basic right
you can enforce. (V)
28. By 2020, every city has an urban forest accessible by bike. (V)
29. Green is not the same as real nature. By 2019, there is every resident also 10 m² new nearby nature
her or his neighborhood added. (V)
30. The Flemish and Brussels governments invest in a network of slow roads, that's easy for everyone
is accessible. The principle of "limitation" of (public easements around) near roads already 30
year were no longer used and can be lifted will be revised. (V, B, F)
31. Natural are made as accessible as possible for hikers and cyclists. In this way
increases support for more nature. (V)
32. In the cities we choose compaction and greening. Through SIPs or a new Regional Development
In Brussels. Greenery and nature are an essential part of the city and from the inner cities and outskirts
village centers led by the construction of green lobes and blue ribbons. These have both green networks
an environmental and social connection function (eg. the Green Walk around Brussels). Ingebuisde rivers
where possible, be brought back above ground and can thus contribute to nature conservation and
increased quality of life, especially in built up areas.
33. We choose ecological architecture, where green, water, nature, even farming also in the communities and
buildings themselves penetrate. We support residents in the construction of green roofs, facades and gardens and tile
terrace green. All of us produce where possible with nature, helping to build green links, and is not
single consumer of nature. (V, B)
34. The Flemish government actively campaigns to involve additional families and children to nature. Especially
children are entitled to more green space to play in and living nature to explore. Greenery and nature
be introduced in schools. All children on nature classroom. There is more support for play areas
forests and in all nature reserves. Now it is a good 2500 hectares of play areas. We want at least to
double. (V)
35. Elderly and sick people adjust better when they are surrounded by more green. Nature and health
belong together. Nature works preventively (prevents disease), but also curative (causes people faster
get better). The Flemish government will therefore actively seek more green around care and more
access to green for anyone who is struggling with his or her health. By 2019, ten test projects
set up care and green. We also see new opportunities for integrated care and treatment in a
rural setting: between existing care farms and major rehabilitation, is still a whole range
possible, taking into account the growing demand of older seniors. (V)
36. Nature also has a cultural value: nature and landscapes are valuable heritage. Nature care and care for
heritage and landscapes are best integrated as much as possible. There will be a pot for projects in which
nature and heritage go together. We strive for recognition of the Sonian as World (V, B)

NATURE AND ECONOMY

198

37. Nature recovery - and development can stimulate the local economy and create new green jobs. Especially the
Farmers are better off when they are reimbursed for old and new ecological services. Green
Tourism can bring support sustainable rural development and green urban renewal.

NATURE DEVELOPERS
38. In addition to the projects of the Flemish government (eg. Agency for Nature and Forest) and the nature and
bosverenigingen, we see scope for projects with public-private partnerships, for active
nature. We call for transparent and democratically controlled projects in the area of ​​the
Regaining space and the restoration of natural values. (V)
39. There will be more focus on accelerating a series of "green infrastructure" means the creation of a
natural network connection green areas, from climate buffers and flood areas,
"Defragmentation" of existing transport infrastructure (eg. Highways and railways), the realization of
urban forests, soil and river restoration projects. All this in collaboration with local authorities and regional
landscapes. (V)
40. These projects can still serve several purposes at once: development of new nature,
protection against climate change, creating new opportunities for recreation, healthcare, education,
agriculture. In some cases this may be associated with commercial functions (catering, holiday makers,
tougher sports) provided that it is proportionate and does not disturb the other functions. (V)

NATURE AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
41. We go for sustainable rural development: management of forests, nature, landscapes, but also heritage
in conjunction with local economic development, such as local products and events that the own
identity of a region in the paint set so that it is attractive to visitors. The Flemish
Land Agency has sample projects that demonstrate how rural but also urban
renovation can trace along perfectly with a strong nature and climate policy. (V)
42. In this context we choose eg. Sustainable resorts and properties that can serve as a model for the
development of ecological residential neighborhoods and housing: car-free, green energy, passive construction, waste prevention,
sustainable food, etc. (see "green key", an existing standard for environmentally friendly tourism
companies). (V)
43. fallow lands, company grounds or grounds of the SNCB, temporary green areas or nature
be furnished. Industrial estates are managed with an eye for nature and the realization of
areas for nature. (V, B, F)
44. The number of workers MINA (MINA = environment and nature) can increase sensitivity. The exercise also income
Farmers are strongly supported. Choosing an offensive nature creates many additional jobs. (V)

NATURE AND AGRICULTURE
45. At present, there is a tangle of subsidies for management agreements with environmental, water or
natural purposes as part of Flemish and European environmental, natural or rural. Green suggests
to choose in the future for a framework of ecological services for all farmers. A
Such an agreement may be best collective closed (with several farmers and
land users together) and for an entire area. Farmers and other landowners will be compensated
for the ecosystem services they provide to society. (E, V)
46. ​​This may involve extracting natural and environmental (protection of certain species such as
grassland birds, hamsters, bees, butterflies. It may be land-margin, recovery or development
of small landscape elements, the botanical management, control of erosion, or to improve the quality of
Surface and groundwater). The government controls the profits in terms of biodiversity. (V)
47. But it can also involve active nature of water (eg. In verwevingsgebieden, in controlled
flood areas), soil improvement (agro-ecology), climate-friendly cultivation or measures (eg.
payments for crops that store CO2 in the soil or for the conversion of production high
greenhouse gas emissions and land use to lower greenhouse gas emissions and low land use). (V)

NORTH SEA: coastal defenses and NATURE

199

The North Sea is of vital importance to man and nature: the sea provides fish, sand, fuel, oxygen and regulates it to us
climate. But the pressure on our coast is still continuing to grow. We are now already with a wall of Atlatic
apartment blocks and urbanization continues to increase with the arrival of new holiday homes and second
stay. Therefore, there is need for an integrated management of the entire coastal zone. For the marine environment, sea,
beach, dunes and coastal polders, we draw an offensive approach that combines coastal defense as much as possible
with nature. The recreation on the coast is an important economic factor, which risks losing its base,
if we do not opt ​​for natural solutions. And if the sea is also ransacked and the seabed beyond
churned up by trawls, the fishery threatens to destroy her own existence. Coordinated
coastal policy is only possible through cooperation between the federal government (responsible for the sea) and the Flemish
government (responsible for the coastal zone).

DEFENDING THE COAST TO CONTINUE ALONG WITH NATURE
48. We assume that the precautionary principle and opt for a robust defense of the entire coastal region which
protection against storms that may occur once every 10,000 years. (V)
49. Now there are tons of sand excavated from the sandbanks off the coast to increment our beaches. Because the
rice sea level, there will be in the future even more sand are needed. At the same time play a role which sandbanks
coastal protection and avoiding a too strong waves on the shore. It is a delicate balance
between replenishment and extraction of sand. It is therefore logical to set limits on permits for pure
commercial extraction of sand and gravel. (V)
50. For the coastal protection measures will be introduced that go along with nature. There are natural
climate landscaped buffers consisting of natural beaches, dynamic dunes, intertidal areas. The
existing beaches are widened and the dunes will be strengthened. So that the precious sand embankments
eventually no longer be necessary. This could be while ensuring the creation of additional natural values.
So we book a double benefit: better protection against storm surges and wetlands. (V)
51. The Master Plan for the protection of the coastal zone is not limited to the coastal strip alone, but also includes
measures for the hinterland and its waterways. (V)

52. Beaches are to be managed sustainably by working with sand trap screens, nets or rice timber. By the
beaches constantly cleaning machines with the structure of the beach is loosened, the natural
more disturbed habitat in the upper layer and the blowing sand away faster. So again more sand has landed
be. Where practicable, is chosen for manual cleaning. For example, also be smaller
plastic pieces and the pollution limits by micro-plastics in marine animals. Work is carried out by
integrated land-sea reserves with eg. beach reserves for Lombardsijde, the Tideway and the Bay of Heist (V, F).
53. There will be a Flemish action plan for green nature and the coast with recreational hiking areas in and around the
coastal cities (V).
54. The establishment of wind farms can perfectly coexist with the protection of thriving ecosystems
in the flanks and gullies between the sandbanks. (F)
VLAAMSE BAYS
55. Green rejects the plans for the construction of new offshore islands as provided for in the original
Flemish Bays Plan. This relates to islands that are meant for new apartments, tourist
resorts and hotels. We burden future generations with even higher security costs. (V)
56. We want the Flemish plan around the coastal defense is shaped by all involved, not only with
dredging, port administrators, developers and coastal mayors, but also with the coastal population
itself, fishermen and farmers, the environmental movement. (V)
57. In future discussions on the expansion of ports and the development of (new) marinas
we want to always go out of bounds by the marine ecosystem and the measures
which are necessary in the context of an integrated coastal protection. (V)
BIODIVERSITY IN THE SEA
58. Marine protected areas (marine reserves) are expanded in the North Sea. In such zones can not
fishing and other forms of exploitation not allowed. In these protected areas can
marine flora and fauna recover. There are also more zones required that only durable
Fishing techniques are permitted or where temporary visverboden be set (eg. during the
spawning period). (E, F) For the porpoise is drawn a species protection (F). There will be a ban on
200 gill nets that lead to the bijvangstvan porpoises. For beach fishing can be flat or nets - under
strict conditions - Fyke nets are used. There are separate protection measures for sharks and come
skates (F, F).
59. The rest areas and breeding grounds of seals are protected.
60. We protect important bird routes and stopping places on the North Sea (Trapegeer-Power Bank,
Wenduinebank, Plain of the Raan). Around the North Sea are 130 different bird species. The special
Protection Areas (Birds and Habitats Directives) should be updated. The European
Sea birds action plan is implemented in full (E, V, F).
61. We are working on the return of the original oyster beds in the North Sea (eg. At the Hinder Banks). And
we restore balance versus invasive species (the Japanese oyster). There will be incentives for niettinhoudende anti-fouling agents (replacing tributyltin) on ships. (V)
62. Green is for zero tolerance for pollution at sea. There are still an average of three oil spills place per day
on the North Sea. This can not be longer. Shipowners and charterers are held accountable. We urge
Continue to clean vessels (cleaner fuels, and the grant of waste and waste water ports,
...). Ports should not compete through more flexible to jump with environmental regulations. We ask that this
also raised is within the International Maritime Organisation. (E, F, V)
63. We support sustainable fisheries and scientifically based quotas that allow for recovery of species
(see section agriculture). (E)
DUNES AND POLDERS
64. Since the Dunes Decree has stopped the decline of the dunes area. But it still remains necessary to
investing in the quality of our dunes, eg. by preventing further fragmentation and to keep exotics. The
Flemish Government can best acquire more self dunes and performs management obligations for dunes ownership
of individuals or other governments. Water extraction in the dunes is matched to the capacity of
the water supply (V).
65. Steps shall be taken to balance the protection of historical permanent polder grasslands. For
dune polder transitions provide appropriate management and is working on cross-border
nature parks on the Dutch and French borders. Also in the sea itself (the Raan Plain and Flanders
banks) (V, F).
201 ANIMAL
VISION
We need a policy based on the rights of animals. Animals are in our country
still widely abused and tortured. While there are indeed alternatives
exist. Flemish farmers already proving today that humane farming possible
is.
Industrial production of meat leads to the systematic violation of animal rights.
Animals are packed into animal factories. The animals can not behave themselves, of course,
the animals are sick and deformed, their resistance is broken so they fall prey
on infectious diseases, which can then be tamed only by massive
massacres. The "bio-industry" creates pollution on a large scale (manure) and threatens
also the human health (eg. the overuse of antibiotics in pigs).
Even animal rights are violated in other ways. Our country continues to lead what
number of animal experiments are concerned. Endangered species are traded worldwide. And us
land is one of the turntables. Animals are hunted, caught in the wild, staged
as entertainment. Without the occupants with many animals. And finally suffer much
animals because their habitat, their habitat is being destroyed.
By mistreat animals we lower ourselves. By taking care of animals, we care
better for nature, the environment and, ultimately, ourselves.
The welfare state reform is a Flemish competence. We like this
seize opportunity to take new initiatives to introduce more rights for animals.
We want there to enter into dialogue with animal rights organizations, but also with the
farmers.
PROPOSALS
ANIMAL IN THE ENVIRONMENT
1.
There is a need for an independent policy on animal rights. It is therefore not a good thing as animal welfare
is the responsibility of the minister of agriculture. Then get economic interests may be the
prevailed and a single instance is both judge and party. Animal rights belong to us at home under
environment. We advocate a strict control of compliance with existing and future rules
animal welfare in livestock. (V)
Friendly farming
2. We strive for a phased withdrawal from intensive farming. In addition, we want animal as soon as possible
give more room to move. Ultimately, we want to return to real-friendly crops, where animals
get out and live a natural life in meadows, yards, in large stables. (E, V)
3. Farmers do better than the European standard (called. Top runners), which eg. Opt for fewer animals and
for an animal-friendly production, receive support from the Flemish Agricultural Investment. (V)
4. The standards for keeping animals are gradually tightened. Breeding Methods motion space
of curbing excessive animals, be phased out as soon as possible. All animals have the right to air and
a free range. (E, V)
202 5. The EU applies also to animal welfare requirements on imported food. (E)
6. There will be a mandatory preventive vaccination of animals to prevent the large-scale cull
healthy animals in the outbreak of animal diseases. (E, V)
7. True, we want to ban torture immediately. Vermin Kende interventions in animals will not be allowed,
as eg. castration of piglets without anesthesia, jaw or tooth cut. Amputating tails of horses
(box cakes) should certainly not be reinstated. Cruel rearing and force-feeding methods (such as ducks
and geese to produce foie gras) are prohibited, including their importation. (E, V)
8. Fur farming for fur (foxes, chinchillas, rabbits, minks, ...) are prohibited as well as trading
and import of fur (products). (E, V)
9. Livestock markets are banned by decree. Like the transport of animals over long distances. The supervision
compliance with transport regulations are tightened. (E, V)
10. There will be research into new fishing methods which take greater account of animal welfare. Fishing trawler
is prohibited. Europe provides sustainable aquaculture, with special attention to the welfare of fish. (E,
V)
Animal REDUCE - ANIMAL REMOVAL
11. There will be a legal ban on all commercial animal testing. Experiments on primates are always prohibited. Also for
Scientific research at the service of public health shall verify that there are no plausible
alternatives to animal testing:. tests on tissue samples or cell cultures or testing through the
computer. (E, V)
12. Green is for sport hunting, against the release of animals for hunting. Only for the sake of a management yacht
good wildlife management is acceptable provided it is done in good running game management units with a
wildlife management plan that is consistent with conservation. Unilateral actions (eg. Against foxes)
should be avoided. (E, V)
13. Green is against the capture of wild birds for sport or for keeping in aviaries. Finch sport can only
when working with farmed birds. It is closely monitoring the growing fraud rings. (V)
14. Duivenoverlast we want to address through friendly measures (not catching and gas through). (B, V)
15. Wild animals do not belong in circuses. That is now regulated by law. For keeping other animals
in circuses now apply strict conditions in terms of adequate housing, transportation and the nature of the
performances. There must also be adequate supervision. (B, V)
16. We strive for modern zoos that provide sufficient space and as natural as possible
to create their animals. We also want better regulation for competitions with animals (eg.
horse racing). (V)
17. There will be additional quality guarantees for animal shelters. We support sterilization campaigns for stray cats. (B,
V)
18. Slaughter of animals done in basically still under anesthesia.
19. The government enters into dialogue with religious communities to reach good agreements around
ritual slaughter. (B, V)
20. International conventions for the protection of wildlife and endangered species (CITES) are very important.
Domestic abuse are addressed. Examples include Antwerp and Zaventem as
hubs of trafficking in all kinds of endangered and protected species or their products. (V)
21. People at home can not keep wild animals. (B, V)
22. The trade in companion animals on public roads or markets is prohibited for all animals. Impulsive
Purchases are discouraged. The pets trade, we want to restrict breeders who work
according to ethical criteria. The broodfok be curbed. Only accredited breeders who
specialize in more than two races and whose welfare takes precedence over the pursuit of profit may still
dogs fokken.Op leaving pet should be harsher penalties. (B, V)
23. At the level of the European Union, the government will be the most friendly proposing regulation
supports. (E)
203 POLICE AND SECURITY
VISION
Safety is a basic right for all citizens. It is a basic task of the government to this
safety to ensure equal and equitable manner for all its citizens. In
second order, it is also the role of every citizen to contribute to this. Security is also a
social issue. Combating social inequality is still a priority
answers to the insecurity problem.
Justice must not only bet on the fight against the 'traditional' crime civilians
often hit hard as violent crimes, burglaries, traffic ... But
Green, other crime phenomena such as environmental crimes and serious
economic and fiscal crime (the so-called white-collar crime) increased
be a priority.
Green leaves of a broad view of security. It vigorously investigating and
prosecution of crimes is crucial, but safety is not a matter of policing and justice
alone. A full security can only succeed as well as full citizens
partners are involved. Green therefore opts for a comprehensive and integrated
security policy. Integrally causes and effects to identify the best possible way.
Integrated by searching for solutions with all stakeholders.
A broad vision presupposes security with a quick and specific action at
moments of crisis a number of structural measures covering the whole 'criminal justice'
approaches. For Green, each part of the chain structurally reinforced:
prevention, the functioning of the police, the follow-up by the judiciary, implementation of the
punishment and the reintegration into society of persons convicted.
ENSURING SAFETY IS INVESTING IN PREVENTION
Security is not only a question of resources but also of choices, and long-term policy. Prevention
is almost always a more profitable investment than repression.
What we save today in education, or psychological counseling, we pay tomorrow to potential cash
jail cells. The proposals are contained in chapters poverty reduction, education, children and
youth, employment, welfare, family policy, housing and space create the conditions for preventive action. (F, V,
B, E)
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
204
The public space is for everybody. People need to feel safe. In the design of the public
space we are aware of subjective and objective safety: customized lighting, livable streets
squares, a good mix of features. Also dustbins, for dogs and an active policy contributing to cleanliness
a livable and safe neighborhood. (F, V, B)
We invest in community initiatives such as open squares, sports, community health centers, community centers,
that provide social interaction and increase the feeling of safety.
Green investing in youth. Youth, sport, education and employment are essential to participate
the city life (see other chapters of the program).
All actors who play a role in prevention work in prevention networks: community policing,
community guards, social workers, outreach workers and district committees. With respect for the individuality of
everyone's job: a street worker is not a police officer, and vice versa. (F, V, B)
To give citizens easy access to the local police we put in on neighborhood information networks
(BIN). Cooperation with police authorities with respect for the privacy of citizens. The sixth.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
goal of this partnership is on prevention and disseminating useful information for
neighborhood policing.
More and more appear to take all kinds of new officers to police tasks: wardens,
crossing helpers, parking attendants, and so on. Green It is high time for clarity and calls for a
thorough evaluation of the Law on community guards (May 15, 2007). It is important that, for the
citizen it is clear what is the role of non-police public safety professions - such as community guards
and authorized overseers - and of other oversight functions as well regulated private
security guards and local police.
Green pursues a proactive and solution-oriented policies that mediation efforts as an alternative way of
conflict resolution. The Flemish and Brussels governments create the conditions for a first mediation
neighbors through voluntary mediation, backed by professional support. (F, V, B)
Every citizen has the right to appropriate and prompt assistance in case of emergency. Emergency numbers are uniform and
visible in the public space.
Authorities set up campaigns where people are motivated to contribute to a pleasurable
live: the prevention of noise, courtesy in public spaces and on public
transport, waste management, cleanliness, and so on. (F, V, B)
Security cameras are no adequate alternative to the nearby presence of police on the streets. They are
expensive and serve little purpose if they only provide a displacement of crime. Selective use of
Cameras can be considered if it appears that it effectively in certain places or events a
offers added value (for example, underground stations). This is always done on the basis of a democratic debate. (F, V, B)
Tackling bicycle theft. Cycling without unique frame number will be sold in Belgium no longer
and the government administers a comprehensive bicycle registration system based on part number. On disposal - also 2nd
hands - the data will be checked and adjusted. Based on data on stolen bicycles
we localize theft locations and provide more oversight and thus theft prevention. The police
take action against the illegal sale of stolen bicycles. (F, V, B)
PROFESSIONAL POLICE AT THE SERVICE OF CITIZENS
The police in certain areas too few at the base, in the neighborhoods, and is loaded with a lot of administrative
and paperwork. For a number of major cities over again is that if the police does show in the neighborhoods, often with
large and unreasonable display of power comes with it. While right there is a need for more community-oriented policing.
Police policy is also too little prepared for a diverse society in which police officers operate in many cases.
Mobility of police ensures that there is a high turnover in certain difficult police and that little local
terrain knowledge is causing either frightened by new police officers responding correctly or overly aggressive. There
too few people within police locally anchored and have knowledge of other cultures.
12.
Green is committed to the further realization of a community-oriented basic police which trust
the population strengthened the security and that the local police can give due consideration to
the priorities in the zonal security plan (including road safety). The role of the district inspector is of
crucial importance. It is essential that the judicial administrative duties to local police
are limited so that the local police can focus more on its core tasks.
13. The police play a key role in security. Careful monitoring of the upcoming
reform of the federal police is necessary. Bottlenecks that an expert police operation in the road
be addressed are. (F)
14. Green is working towards a coordinated regional police policy for all Brussels police under the direction
of the Prime Minister. An integrated Brussels police policy allows for a more efficient management of
resources and people. However, an amalgamation of the police must not be at the expense of proximity.
(F, B)
15. Police is for everyone near and approachable. Not only in the tourist city centers or residential areas, but
also in more vulnerable neighborhoods. There is need for adequate community police officers on foot or by bicycle in the area available
are. To ensure that citizens their local police officer (s) and agents know the district, municipalities and police
contact widely known (via brochure, website, ...) and seeks the development of community policing
to limit. If possible, officers are recruited from the neighborhood. (F)
205 16. The intake and promotion of disadvantaged groups into the police force could be better. We optimize
training and recruitment system and provide more pathways to the chances of success for the
entrance exams to increase. (F)
17. The quality of the police work is promoted by employing a more customer-oriented welcome and
proper treatment of victims. Police officers are trained to avoid victims
feel a second time victim. (F)
18. Police are sensitized and trained to better cope with physical and verbal violence
to women, LGBT people and victims of domestic violence. Also the
infrastructure is adjusted to an appropriate initial reception. The training provided in Brussels
organized for police officers concerning homophobia resumed and extended to the other
regions. During the training teach police officers dealing with victims of homo- and transphobic violence
and proper recording and handling complaints homophobic. In these courses, attention
devoted to transgender people. (F, V, B)
ROAD SAFETY
Everyone is entitled to a safe traffic environment. Today there are still too many road casualties especially
the most disadvantaged of our society: children, the elderly, pedestrians and cyclists. Groen therefore fully to the
fewer cars, more zones 30, traffic safe school environment, better enforcement, more pedestrian streets and squares,
slow roads, playgrounds and bicycle streets and residential areas The feeling of impunity must disappear.
19. There is a specific approach for the three killers "in traffic: inappropriate speed, drink driving
influence (eg. alcohol and drugs) and not wearing a seatbelt. Besides driving up the controls belong there
acceleration of the procedure. In the context of the criminal road safety policy, these
violation prioritized. Educational penal measures including the expansion of the
alternative judicial measures for traffic offenders we develop. Thus, we advocate the
mandatory installation of an alcohol interlock but also with more community service
road casualties. (V, B, F)
20. The introduction of a driving license with points, it makes sense sluitstuik of better enforcement. Most
Technical barriers are finally resolved, and we carry the driver's license points. (F)
21. Priority attention of the police for the protection of pedestrians and cyclists. There will be stricter
action against parking on footpaths and cycle paths and for speeding. (F, B, V) Good
Practices like the bikers in Antwerp or Brussels bicycle brigade will be extended to all other
police.
22. We punish offenders effectively. The parquet must be approved in view of a
regularly updated register traffic violations. (F)
23. We will strengthen the traffic department at the police court and the police court. (F)
(an expanded program, refer to the section Mobility)
Incivilities
GAS were designed to respond quickly to forms of nuisance and petty crime. In reality,
GAS derailed in various forms of rule drift and random mushrooming of civil servants and came
separation of powers are under pressure.
With Green in government GAS Act will be subject to entry of the legislature to a thorough
evaluation and regulation will be adjusted if necessary undone. We see next
changes.
24. Green advocates an exhaustive list at the federal level. An exhaustive list of behaviors which are amenable
for an administrative penalty value to municipalities and cities, as well as for citizens. This can
contribute to the existing major differences and contradictions between municipalities in the events sanctioned to
work degree away and silly prohibitions counter. In addition to this list is an external
and appointed independent body to precisely define behaviors and the behaviors listed
Keys to the fundamental principles of law and the developed normative framework.
206 25. Findings under the GAS law must be sent by police and specialized civil servants
decree powers, such as environmental officials.
26. Officials who are responsible for determining the penalties we impose strict training requirements. With the
view verdeskundiging and quality we propose sanctioning officials under too
placing on an upper local cell - inter municipal or at the level of one or more police districts.
GAS can only be applied to people at voting age.
APPROACH (INTRA) FAMILY VIOLENCE
27. We call for a rapid and effective implementation of the national action plan to combat
domestic violence with measures and actions at various levels. The plan is a need for
coherent vision of the whole. It is also focus on abuse of the elderly (be) action. (F, V, B)
28. The prevention of violence in relationships is through targeted interventions by aid workers. GPs,
nurses, midwives, teachers, employees of Child & Family ... get a thorough
training to recognize signs of domestic violence and other forms of domestic violence and
follow-up to indicate. (V, B)
29. Police are working on a more gender friendly image and inspectors are better trained to order
dealing with family violence. (F)
30. We provide structural funding "Hotlines Abuse, Violence and Child Abuse". The
Helpline 1712 24 can be reached at 24. (V, B)
31. Belgium will implement the Convention of the Council of Europe on preventing and combating violence
against women and domestic violence. A doubling of the number of places needed for
women and children. There is also at least one house for men. We make the shelters better
accessible, we revise their funding so that whoever invokes a refuge only have the
accommodation have to pay and there is free child care for vulnerable groups. (F, V, B)

32. Offender Supervision is important to avoid the violence starts again (with a new partner).
This requires a structural expansion of offender therapy and systematic monitoring of offenders
violence. (V, B)

33. The pilot project 'Protocol of Courage' explores some new possibilities of cooperation
police-prosecutor and assistance in the context of child abuse. The boundaries of the
secrecy scan, when the partners involved to act within a clear framework and
with due concern for the importance and the safety of those involved. After a favorable evaluation
Green wants to expand it.

YOUTH CRIME
Young people who come into contact with the justice system as Green no mini adult criminals, but young people who
space is needed for education and new opportunities. Youngsters lock may only be an ultimate cure, and
Young inmates are entitled to a regime adapted to their age. We want to seek as far as possible
alternative measures to placement in the form of intensive, restorative interventions.
34. Recent research shows that negative experiences at school prove a compelling explanatory factor
to explain the increased risk of criminal behavior. Therefore, we are strongly committed to equality in education from
kindergarten. Secondary education reform and through targeted measures we go
school fatigue against and we reduce the number of school drop sharply. (See chapter education
of the program.) (V, B)
35. There is a lack of adequate care services for POS young people (young people in a problematic
education situation) and young people with mental problems causing the up in the closed institutions
come. There should therefore be invested primarily in facilities and support
young people with mental health problems and POS youth that the places in closed institutions only
can be used for youth who commit serious offenses. (V)
36. A young person is responsible for his actions, but also has a right to a proper legal settlement. The
measures associated with unacceptable behavior must be clearly defined as in criminal law
for adults. So we develop a full-fledged juvenile criminal law specific measures
provides for minors who commit a crime. (V, B)
207

37. Central to the restoration of the victim, we therefore focusing further on restorative and
communication process in which the perpetrator, the victim and his parents to actively participate in the consultations. They
search for a form of recovery of the material, moral and psychological damage to all parties
is acceptable. (V, B)
38. More general restorative means of correcting the error to society. Therefore it is
important that the restorative justice on a wide range includes measures adapted to his
age of the offender and the seriousness of the crime. The possibilities are reprimanded, rehabilitation, training,
community service, fines and closed shelter. There are also new features such as' suspension
judgment 'and' probation. For eligibility, the younger certain conditions
satisfy, for example participating in restorative or follow a learning project. (V, B)
39. Such a design is called a legal guarantee model. The younger is not a direct object of
well-intended measures, but has its recovery into their own hands when the measure which the juvenile court
pronounce on the basis of age and offense performs well. (V, B)

REFORM AND MODERNIZATION OF JUSTICE
Green argues for an accessible justice, access to all legal subjects, improving the legal status of the
victim before, during and after a process, and promote the access of associations to justice. We will update the
backlog of court cases and put away in a modern, computerized justice. Justice should not only heavy
bets on the fight against the 'traditional' crime affecting citizens often hard as violent crimes, burglaries,
traffic ... but for Green, other crime phenomena such as environmental crimes and severe forms
economic and fiscal crime (the so-called white-collar crime) become a much higher priority.
Here we bring together some proposals. A more comprehensive program is in the chapter justice.
40. First-Aid we keep totally free. To justice centers we know more personnel.
41. Regarding second-line assistance (pro deo lawyer) is a radical reform is necessary. The granting of
points to pro bono lawyers must be reconsidered. The pro-Deoadvocaat entitled to a reasonable
fee, which is paid promptly. They should be exempt from VAT.
42. Victims are more involved in the execution of sentences. For example, they are brought more rapidly to the height of a
request for parole or furlough output and the comments of the victims
or survivors retrieved faster in the proceedings, and so can have notified the public prosecution of any
questions and conditions before giving advice.
43. The right of action of associations extends not only to environmental organizations, but also for
other associations acting in accordance with their corporate purpose. There is also a new law that permits
To set group claims. The maximum access must be guaranteed without falling into
abuses and American practices.
44. The ongoing reform of the judiciary is not yet finished. The proposals will be prepared as much as possible after
consultation and advice of all representative bodies and councils, including the Supreme Court Justice.
45. Green wants in some areas go beyond the planned reform. Within the structure of the new
created (higher) courts (in principle, one per province) have new units to be set up
including specialized departments, viz. for fiscal and environmental crimes and disputes.
46. ​​Environmental Courts and Administrative Courts are guided by specialized magistrates and
handle both criminal, civil and administrative litigation.
47. Penalties are better adapted to the offender, the nature of the crime and the impact of the crime.
Magistrates pay more attention to alternative punishments, however, this with respect for the rights of the
victim. The confiscation of assets is applied in a more thorough manner. The
compensation for victims should not thereby be borne in mind, they should also be compensated quickly.

SENTENCES MAN TO SIZE
The sentencing is to be reviewed. We call for a more humane sentence. The overcrowding
prisons is a huge problem that can not simply be solved by some prisons to build upon.
Increasing prison capacity and thus is expensive and does not contribute to better reintegration of
convicts. Green proposes a number of measures that could lead to a considerable reduction in the
prison population. Here we bring together some proposals. A more comprehensive program is in the
chapter justice.
208

48. Internees be removed from the prison. The Law on the Internment must be thoroughly reviewed and
Internment is only when someone has committed a crime and endangers himself and for the
society. Specialized institutions are established, with special trained staff. The operation of
the newly established Forensic Psychiatric Centres (FPCs) should be entrusted in any way to a
commercial enterprise. The profit motive and indeed heavier than security considerations threatened by
roads than quality of care.
49. Fight against overcrowding in prisons. There is a need for an overall vision and concept of criminal policy
and the prison system. Facilitate electronic monitoring and consider as a viable alternative
and also other alternative sanctions, can remedy this. Large scale prisons are not the
right solution. There is a need for smaller units and projects like "Houses", which offer more opportunities
social integration.
50. Pre-trial detention is kept as short as possible and only strictly necessary for the investigation and ankle
to a certain category of crimes in cases of serious crime, organized crime, danger
offending, flight risk.
51. We will increase the budget to train prison guards in a quality manner.
52. The operation of the implementation courts is evaluated, with a view to getting rid of
defects and aberrations in the procedure.
53. Ability to work in prison is a right for the detainee. The offer of work in the
prison expansion.
54. The education of detainees in Flanders and Brussels will be expanded. Green also wants the decree for the
auxiliary and maximum perform services for detainees so they can develop and promote their reintegration. This requires adequate staff and budget necessary for a quality range
to develop within the prisons.

RE-INTEGRATION
The final step in the safety chain ensures that people do not abuse again with a new place in society
to record. Today, inmates in prison insufficiently prepared for reintegration. 44% of
the detainees re-enters the prison. It is of great importance for the society which
detainees receive adequate opportunities which can help them to be better people coming out of prison. The
current system of punishing can not, however, respond to this. There is a need for differentiation, proximity and
small scale.
55. The rates of recidivism here are a good indicator for the effectiveness of the strategic assistance and
measuring services. Green also wants a new cooperation agreement between welfare and justice to the
access to and enhance the importance of the judicial welfare.
56. We advocate for more small-scale initiatives in which detainees are entitled to a private individual
planning supervisor, both during but also after the detention period. From the conviction is a
solution plan (detention and rehabilitation plan) drawn up.
57. More community-oriented initiatives - such as the concept of 'Houses' - play from the
Recovery thought an economic, social and cultural role in their environment. Scandinavian countries show with
their low recidivism figures that works a small scale and meaningful use of time.

209

JUSTICE
VISION
The judiciary in our country is the third power, which plays an important role as
regulator of social life and the protection of our fundamental rights
and freedoms. We note that in the weakening of human relationships
our society, dialogue between the people is weakened and interpersonal
conflicts increase and become more difficult to solve. The increase in poverty and
political exclusion further increasing the social imbalances and weaken
the possibilities for governments to stand in for prevention. Often Justice is the only
resort to put an end to the violation of human rights and integrity.

Green argues for an accessible justice, access to all legal subjects,
improving the rights of victims before, during and after a trial, and the
promoting access to justice associations.

Justice should not only heavily on the struggle against the 'traditional' crime
citizens often take hard as violent crimes, burglaries, traffic violations, but ...
For Green, other crime phenomena such as environmental crimes and serious
economic and fiscal crime (the so-called white-collar crime) a lot
be higher priority.

Getting rid of the backlog and a modern, computerized justice
realize;

More work on alternative sanctions and penalties tailored to the offender bill
into account the nature of the crime, its impact and the potential for
social reintegration of the offender;

The inmates get out of prison, care in specialized institutions;

Tackle overcrowding in prisons;

Redefining the penitentiary leave, and the task of the judicial assistant;

Stepping up the fight against juvenile delinquency, with more emphasis on prevention
and alternative approaches;

Unambiguous rules for sentencing; and

Adjusting the family to the changing family structures and social
evolutions.

210

PROPOSALS
AN ACCESSIBLE JUSTICE
1.

To avoid costly and lengthy procedures, we use mediation and alternative
litigation solutions. They are actively promoted.
2. First-Aid we keep totally free. To justice centers we know more personnel.
3. Relating to second line support (pro-Deoadvocaat) is a radical reform is necessary. The granting of
points to pro-Deoadvocaten must be reconsidered. Some performances are now undervalued
(eg civil procedures). Abuses by some lawyers who without underlying performance
gather as many points need to be addressed. The pro-Deoadvocaat entitled to a reasonable
fee, which is paid promptly. They should be exempt from VAT.

IMPROVING THE LEGAL STATUS OF THE VICTIM
4. Victim care and better and this by specifically trained people. This is not only the
case for violent crimes, but also for traffic accidents. Victim Reception will begin at
crime or accident and continues up to and after the execution of sentences.
5. Civil partie is less formal way through a declaration, with opportunities to ask
further investigation and access to the file. The cost of civil action are limited.
6. Victims are more involved in the execution of sentences. For example, they are brought more rapidly to the height of a
request for parole or furlough output and the comments of the
Victims or survivors retrieved faster in the procedure so that the prosecutor may have knowledge of
any questions and conditions before giving advice. However, they are not party to it and mete
the execution of the sentence. This is and remains the sole task of the judiciary.

EXTENDING THE ACTION OF ASSOCIATIONS AND ENTERING
A FULL GROUP OF CLAIM
7. The right of action of associations extends not only to environmental organizations, but also for
other associations acting in accordance with their corporate purpose. This should be possible in both
criminal and civil matters. The associations have to comply with a number of obvious
basic as having legal personality and be really active around the matter.
8. There is also a new law that allows you to set up group claims. This should not only be possible in
consumer affairs (as is currently the case under the new law) but also in financial matters (eg.
shareholders of companies who are disadvantaged), liability claims and large
claims to disasters (in Ghislenghien). Access to such a "class action" should not be limited
be up to several associations. The maximum access must be guaranteed without falling into
abuses and American practices.

REFORM AND MODERNIZATION OF JUSTICE
AFTER Dutroux U WERE NUMEROUS reforms,
FACT:
211

A federal prosecutor with national competence for serious crimes.
The Supreme Court was established for Justice to appoint judges and promote citizens' complaints to
to do investigations and audits of courts and prosecution offices.
Victims were given a status with more rights and the so-called law Franchimont became part of
reformed the criminal proceedings.
The police chief is not appointed for life, but now has a mandate limited in time. There came
a Board of Procurators-General to send the criminal policy.
There were sentencing courts to decide the parole of convicts.

But the work is not finished. The ongoing judicial reform, as decided in this legislative period is not yet finished.
For Green should be taken into account in the further implementation of the following elements;
9. Proposals to be worked out as much as possible following consultation and advice from all representative bodies and councils,
including Supreme Court Justice.
10. The proximity of the judiciary is maintained. There will be more specialized and mobile magistrates.
11. The workload measurement is finished as soon as possible in all courts of the country and in the
prosecutors, and converted into customized frames.
12. In particular, ensure that end appointed chiefs for the efficient management of the courts and the FPS
Justice makes available the necessary budget for this
13. respected the autonomy of each court, budgetary envelopes are being negotiated and
granted. The audit of the budget is done by the Chamber and the Audit Office, with respect for the principle
the separation of powers. Each year, these budgets approved by the Court.
14. Do not disputed invoices are being paid within the normal payment. It is unacceptable
vendors, doctors, nurses, interpreters, translators, experts, and so sometimes half a year or longer
have to wait for payment of invoices and fee notes.
But these reforms are not enough. We want to go even further by following procedures.
15. Within the structure of the newly created (higher) courts (in principle, one per province) need new
departments should be set up, including specialized departments, viz. for fiscal and environmental
crimes and disputes.
16. There will be more management in the courts; Each court receives a management committee with a chairman and
a vice-president, looking at the legal side of the work and non-magistrate as manager for all
logistics (buildings, staff recruitment, ...).
17. National proposed a central office to manage courts. Who gets a board with a
executive committee. They go on ICT, buildings, major purchases, personnel statute. They negotiate with
all courts and prosecution offices on resources and personnel they need to know and then a
funding envelope.
18. Judges are mobile, they can be turned into a different department, but with respect for their
specialty.
19. The system of substitute judges should be abolished. It can not be that lawyers on the one hand
plead in court and on the other hand, for the same (or other) court, also as deputy judge
reside.

Simpler LAWS AND PROCEDURES
20. The aim is to improve the quality and readability of new legislation which is as much as a matter
be co-ordinated as possible. The way in which the statutory law evaluation now proceeds, it is
saddening, because there is little interest in parliament for the work that is annually through reporting
done by the prosecutors general of the country. Legal texts should be simpler and more readable
created.
21. Procedures should be simplified, so be procedural errors avoided. To do this, is among other things a thorough
revision of the Code of Criminal Procedure required. The number of time limits in the law
drastically reduced.

INTRODUCTION OF ENVIRONMENTAL COURTS AND ADMINISTRATIVE COURTS
22. Environmental and urban planning enforcement is now fragmented. Extrajudicial administrative
Courts have their own procedure and jurisprudence. The magistrates in these colleges are well
versed in the matter, but they are politically appointed and based on unclear criteria. Environmental law
requires a coordinated approach and a merger in a transparent process and one environmental code.
23. The establishment of environmental courts and administrative tribunals in the bosom of the court itself, penetrates
located on. These courts are guided by specialized magistrates and treat both
criminal, civil and administrative litigation.

212

DRIVEN BY AN APPROACH IN LAW AND JUSTICE OF RACISM,
Xenophobia, homophobia, sexism
24. It should be consistently pursued and prosecutors should devote priority attention.
25. Green wants in the next legislature finally, the inter-federal Human Rights Commission
installed that has long been envisaged. This independent committee with a general
Human Rights competence documents the situation of human rights in our country, makes recommendations
the relevant authorities do awareness raising and dealing with complaints. The establishment can best be done in
consultation with the existing human rights organizations.

ADDRESSING THE COURT DISADVANTAGE
26. In accordance with the results of the workload measurement, magistrates of the frameworks should be adjusted
be. The same applies to the registries and other judicial personnel.
27. The computerization of justice is finally here, so in a clear and efficient manner.
28. The necessary funds are made available. The continuity of personnel and resources
guaranteed.
29. Procedures to be simplified, where necessary, with respect for the rights of defense.
30. Adequate resources and staff be made available for the fight against serious crime
(including tax) fraud, so that limitation and procedural errors can be avoided.
31. To this end implements the 108 recommendations of the parliamentary committee of inquiry great
tax evasion in 2009. This should include mean that there shall be established for each district a tax prosecutor
so all bring together expertise and large-scale and complex projects faster and quality
can be addressed.
32. For this there is need for a thorough review of the Franchimont Act, which is now often used in
complex cases to prolong the procedure and thus limitation to pursue.
33. The law on expanded amicable settlement (called "afkoopwet"), which was introduced specifically for the
handling of fiscal and economic crimes, is abolished.
34. Large and complex files are digitized so that all parties can easily files
consult and follow along the lines of what happened in the Lernout and Hauspie and file
Ghislenghien. In lieu of a paper copy of a large file, a disk is made available.
35. Further work is created from the digitalization of registry operations.
36. Assize sessions should be boosted and take less time. This can be done by the report and the number
limiting testify about the morality
37. In criminal investigations, the turnaround time should be limited. The civil action is not outdated
and is a barrier to the flow of things. Instead comes a simple statement of disadvantaged and
involved party.
38. For each judicial district there will be organized a concert that the priorities of research
capture. In that consultation between prosecution and police agreed that urgent matters are high, which
policemen preferably in which to work, which experts should be involved. This consultation
ensures that investigations are not linger on endlessly and not uitdeinen to ancillary aspects. What the
prosecutors get inside, they can also process.

PENALTIES BE ADAPTED TO THE INDIVIDUAL, THE CRIME OF THE NATURE,
IMPACT OF THE CRIME.
39. In order to select the appropriate punishment, judges should be able to quickly have a full profile
perpetrator and his surroundings. Such a profile can be developed in collaboration between the police, public prosecutor and
Justice Assistant.
40. Magistrates pay more attention to alternative punishments, however, this with respect for the rights of
the victim.
41. Furthermore, whenever possible and appropriate given preference to electronic monitoring at sentencing.
Admittedly, provided there is an adequate framework, guidance and control.

213

42. The power to impose an electronic monitoring has already been given to the criminal court itself, as this
viable alternative.
43. The various systems of electronic surveillance must be switched equal as possible and there
must always be the necessary guidance. Sometimes there is a social research in advance and there is guidance,
do not. There is a proliferation of electronic monitoring, with different schemes and systems, which
leading to inequality and discrimination.
44. The confiscation of assets is applied in a more thorough manner. The
compensation for victims should not thereby be borne in mind, they should also be compensated quickly.

Internees BE REMOVED FROM THE PRISON
45. The Law on the Internment should be thoroughly reviewed and internment is only a crime when someone
committed and a danger to themselves and to society.
46. ​​Specialized institutions are established, with special trained staff. The operation of the newly constituted
focus Forensic Psychiatric Centres (FPCs) should be entrusted in any way to a
commercial enterprise. The profit motive and indeed heavier than security considerations threatened by
roads than quality of care.
47. In addition to the specialized center in Ghent which will soon open, and the planned project in Antwerp, there must
urgently need more capacity to be created, in collaboration with the Department of Public Health, for the
higher risk profiles.
48. Inmates are entitled to adequate treatment in a secure setting, it respected their
gradation of mental illness and the nature of the crime committed. Inmates with low risk are
referred to an external care circuit.
49. There should be clear agreements in the field of public health (treatment), welfare (the
accompaniment) and justice (safety).
50. It is necessary to address the establishment of research and observation centers, where a mentally ill
can be observed long after which the judge with knowledge of the facts can an informed decision
do and can give instructions for proper and appropriate treatment.

FIGHT AGAINST OVER POPULATION OF PRISONS
51. There is a need for an overall vision and concept of the penal policy and prison.
52. facilitate electronic monitoring and consider as a viable alternative and in addition other
alternative sanctions, can remedy this.
53. Pre-trial detention is kept as short as possible and only strictly necessary for the investigation and ankle
to a certain category of crimes in cases of serious crime, organized crime, danger
for recidivism, risk of flight.

54. Salduz law, the assistance of a lawyer during any questioning is applied correctly. The
lawyers are paid correctly and have more say in the conduct of the investigation and the
interrogation.
55. The task of the judicial assistant is upgraded, more staff and resources are available
asked the Justice Houses.
56. There will be a separate legal status and a uniform regulation for the prisoner, with better
cooperation and agreements between the different departments within the prison, the directors and the
psychosocial counselors.
57. Large-scale prisons are not the right solution. There is a need for smaller units and projects
"Houses", which provide more opportunities for social integration.
58. The prisoner is entitled to medical care and sufficient doctors to be appointed for this purpose, which
of course, are paid correctly.
59. The prisons provide a modern, decent infrastructure and, if necessary
modernized. Old dehumanizing prisons be closed.
60. When building new prisons or detention houses smaller is no longer working with PPSconstructies. After all, they make the plans more expensive, provide big gains in the private partners and lead to
outsourcing tasks currently performed by inmates.
61. We will increase the budget to train prison guards in a quality manner.
214

62. provide for appropriate departments for the care of pregnant women in prison and the
care of children. For as far as possible, this is done in a semi-open setting.
63. attention is paid within the prisons and sufficient manpower and resources to
disposal for counseling and reintegration. The core mission should be that recidivism is avoided.
64. Prisons must be drug free. Drug treatment should start already in prison and be there
Separate wings provide for prison inmates who want to kick the habit. There is taken hard against the
smuggling of drugs in prison.
65. The pilot projects (eg in Gent) were set up within the court 'drug treatment rooms'
with the aim of defendants who have committed crimes because of their drug use, a suitable
to undergo treatment immediately instead of being locked up in prison, be positive
evaluated. The phase of the pilot project can be closed and transformed into a permanent process in all
courts of the country.

An individualized AND COHERENT SYSTEM FOR DEVELOPING
SENTENCES
66. The sentencing should be based on clear legislation, not on the basis of unclear and
unprecedented ministerial circulars, with coordination between the various actors and levels.
67. The prisons are separate regimes possible, tailored to the detainee.
68. They will be sufficient attention to counseling and reintegration. Each person is given a
drafted adapted detention plan.
69. To all courts come uniform sentencing guidelines. In this way,
contradictions and inconsistencies eliminated in the law. This system already exists in the Netherlands. There
are also guidelines on how complex and unclear legal texts should be
interpreted. If necessary, adjustments are made quickly.
70. Justice must be predictable, recognizable and coherent. The quality of justice needs to be better
monitored. At all levels of the organization efforts should be made to a high quality
to guarantee levels of the judiciary.
71. There should be consultation between the courts and between the courts and the court of appeal
a more uniform interpretation of unclear and inconsistent laws. The Court of Cassation
be involved in these discussions.
72. The operation of the implementation courts is evaluated, with a view to getting rid of
defects and aberrations in the procedure.
73. The sentencing court must also declare themselves about the prison passes ,. The sometimes
arbitrary powers of the directors of prisons will end that way. Casualties
are kept up to date in question and in the same manner as in the procedure for the conditional
release.
74. The psychosocial service has on the advice of the files sentencing an important contribution.
75. A special chamber of the sentencing court is concerned with the follow-up of internees.
76. The Dupont Act, voted in 2005, offers great opportunities for the release of the detainee
to prepare. Of application of this law should be made urgently, so by
drafting a detention plan for each prisoner.
77. In prison there is a sufficiently developed psycho-social services and adequate social
aides present, which can prepare the release along with the detainee.
78. Ability to work in prison is a right for the detainee. The offer of work in the
prison expansion.
79. The education of detainees in Flanders and Brussels will be expanded. Whom no certificate of secondary
Education has, illiterate or poorly Dutch speaking and / or writing, it has thereby even more difficult.
It is therefore important that during the implementation of the possibility of forming and imprisonment
education. The investments we make to education for detainees pay for itself quickly. Both the
detainee himself as the whole society benefit from it. (V)
80. Green will perform up the decree for the assistance and services for detainees so that they
can develop and promote their reintegration. This requires adequate staff and budget
necessary to build a quality range within the prisons. (V)
81. Houses of Justice, judicial assistants and specialized services are better supported, for staff and
resources. Since the Sixth State Reform the Justice Houses will be regionalised. The different
services is best aligned and a uniform information system is introduced so that
215

data can be exchanged between the various services. Coaching the prisoner stops
not at the prison gate. Counseling in prison should automatically go into counseling and
monitoring after release.
82. The detention should not adversely affect the social security of the family.

INTRODUCTION OF SPECIAL SECTIONS IN THE COURTS
83. The introduction of the family courts, which all related matters family, youth and treat family, is a good
case. These courts should be sufficient budgetary support and have sufficient
trained magistrates.
84. Mediation in family law and juvenile matters, is encouraged. Besides the 'rooms
amicable settlement "in the judiciary, there are mediations at the community level (such as the CAW's) or
other private initiatives. Green calls for a streamlining of the supply so that parents and children
easily find their way into existing offerings. To make parents and children aware as early as possible
mediation capabilities, we want to make the offer more known.
85. Judges and court clerks play an important role in the possibility and advantages of mediation opposite
to set up a classic legal procedure in the paint. They deserve more support for a
To ensure qualitative implementation of the right to speak of children and youth. It is important
to provide feedback to the child or young person, so it is sufficiently clear what was decided there and
how were taken into account their aspirations.
86. The tax regime on the deduction of alimony payments will be adjusted to the changed
family situations and the changed social evolutions concerning the composition of families.
87. Within the courts are also individual departments set up for the treatment of
urban affairs and environmental affairs, with treatment of specially trained magistrates.
88. Between the various districts will be consulted for a coherent approach.

Combat juvenile delinquency
89. There will be more cooperation between the federal level, which impose measures to juvenile offenders
and the Regions, which should follow the implementation of the measures. A common vision and
strategy is certainly desirable. In this sense, cooperation agreements should be concluded with a
clear vision concerning the arsenal of measures and their implementation (see chapter safety).

OTHER:
90. The proposal presented by the Green-Ecolo group setting up a parliamentary committee of inquiry
responsible for investigating the role of foreign and domestic intelligence agencies in cyber espionage,
will the newly elected federal parliament be resubmitted.

216

EVERYONE IS MEE
LIVING TOGETHER
VISION
Age, gender, national origin, religion, sexual preference, disability or health condition, ...
No two people are alike. Especially in our cities, but also in more rural areas, the
this diversity more and more visible. Variety gives our society more color,
even though it is sometimes not easy to live together in diversity.

Green building a society where people understand each other, and the likes
afford to live together. Crumbling social networks, brutalizing
manners and reduced solidarity demand renewed efforts by citizens and
governments. Community building is not old, but a very modern mission. We
see it as the duty of the government to promote active citizenship. That citizenship
means that people working for the public good and with other citizens decide
about what is good and necessary for society. The government sets the right
example.

The essence of the green vision of coexistence is that people are not only together, but
actually living together. In essence this means that we in Flanders and Brussels politics
for all men, and a focus on specific measures that are required for all
minority groups (see also chapters gender, ethno-cultural diversity, children
and young people, older people and LGBT people).

Different groups in society are pitted against each other today. Youngsters
against adults, "foreigners" against "natives", the "ordinary citizen" against people
undocumented, people with disabilities, people living in poverty ... That leads to a lot
polarization and little understanding. Because we require a particular focus on
minority groups in society were separate for different target groups
program texts elaborated. The chapter can read live together in that sense
are the chapters "children and youth", "elderly", "ethnocultural
diversity 'and' gays'.

For Green and his midfield active civic initiatives indispensable partners. They
strengthen the capacity of the government and keep the policy critical eye. That
requires policymakers communication, openness, adequate distance and
attract intelligent support without needlessly initiatives to the government. Green
is committed to an active policy for volunteers to give them maximum opportunities for growth and their role
to play.

PROPOSALS
A POSITIVE AND INCLUSIVE CITIZENSHIP MODEL
All citizens and communities have the right to a feeling of belonging. That is a basic requirement for
succeed in a society like ours. This applies to both individuals and communities. Social recognition
217

crucial for the identity and self-esteem of individuals. Citizenship is for everyone, even if you are not the dominant
culture belongs. Such recognition is crucial to know and accept yourself to feel welcome.
58. The increased polarization is also reflected in restrictive views on human rights. By continuously
talk about "rights and obligations" society is becoming more selective in granting rights
people: GAS fines for trivialities, dress codes for religious minorities, care for vulnerable
children, skyrocketing fees for those without Belgian nationality and so on. For Green form the
rule of law and citizenship, the basis for our society. The most important values ​​can be found in
our Constitution and in international treaties signed by Belgium. As a party we will this
defend values, even if this sometimes accompanied by intense debate and struggle. (F, V, B)
59. The specific terms of these values ​​should be done in an inclusive way. That is to say, in consultation
with all members of society. Green wants to actively organize the dialogue. It is essential that individuals
and communities constantly in dialogue to understand each other and to clear
make arrangements. The government must permanently organize the structured dialogue between communities.
Not only according to ethnic lines but also between the communities of young, old, between
worldviews, and so on. (F, V, B)
60. Green wants in the next legislature finally, the inter-federal Human Rights Commission
installed that has long been envisaged. This independent committee with a general
Human Rights competence documents the situation of human rights in our country, makes recommendations
the relevant authorities do awareness raising and dealing with complaints. The establishment can best be done in
consultation with the existing human rights organizations.
61. Green thinks that politics and government could give more recognition, appreciation and encouraged the
midfield. We suggest that the government makes a pact with civil society, the correct,
transparent and healthy relationship between government, politics and society will be explicit. The finance
and manner of decision-making are key. (F, V, B)

PROMOTE LIVING TOGETHER
Many people are concerned about living near them. More than in the past, complained about the behavior of the
other: noise, dirt street, name calling, intimidation, ... Green takes these issues to heart.
62. A warm society requires meeting places where different cultures and people together
meet, where children can play, where young and not so young people can each
meet, places where it is pleasant to be. Regional development must therefore be tailored and
scheduled in consultation with local residents and stakeholders. Handsome architectural and artistic interventions
are part of a successful public space, but what is decisive is the extent to which residents themselves
identify with "their" public space and are willing to bear a lot of responsibility. Want
We encourage the use of public space, the car can no longer be the main owner of the
keep street. Streets and squares is part of the public space and offer places to rest,
people to meet, to play, ... The design of the public space must therefore be tailored to
different ages and needs. Good examples for meeting places in the public space
collective gardens, open workspaces, and more. (F, V, B)
63. Green makes everyone who lives in Belgium part of society. The forms of these
But community is not easy. Green sees it as the duty of the government to active citizenship
promotion. She puts everything in its power to bring the conversation between the residents in the communities going. Green
proposes to allow new formulas of community building. (F, V, B)
Neighborhood plans and contracts are important levers for the government to increase the quality of life.
Green advocates this in continuous dialogue with all stakeholders (senior citizens, young people,
families with small children, traders, municipal services, community police officers, community associations, schools
etc.) to shape and realize. These plans have an eye for opportunities for meeting
residents and are proactive in everyone's needs and concerns associated with the use of the
public space.
Green will focus on the use and part economics (see Chapter economy). Models like
car sharing, third-party payer systems, leasing extend much stronger. Often they arise
initiatives by residents who are committed to their own neighborhood or district. Often the initiatives remain small and
informal, but sometimes they grow into players with a decent size and they want a serious
interlocutor for the city and community organizations. The business district is a model that
Green wants to give more opportunities for growth.

218

-

Wijkbudgetten are an excellent example of co-production between citizens and government. Burgers
discuss and decide on proposals and projects to enhance the quality of life in their neighborhood.
They are as far as possible participate in the realization.
Local exchange circuits are easy, economical and ecological. "INJURY, 'or the creation of local
exchange circles is a system of barter in goods and services, which may or may not use
made of a complementary currency system. Exchanging occasional performances promotes
of belonging and values ​​the talents and abilities of all people.
Day of the neighbors - the last Friday of May - for the Flemish and Brussels public a
opportunity to make the importance of social cohesion in the neighborhood concrete. We call a dedicated
project fund in life.
Feasts, festivals and other events bring people together. As Greens, we ensure that our
events are accessible and sustainable. Festivities run not merely for consumption or
attracting 'big names'. The aim should be to involve residents as much as possible and to
bring a positive dynamics. Governments support the organizers of events
towards sustainability.
64. We improve relations between north and south in their own country. We foster cooperation
various fields to build bridges and community development across the language borders in
stimulation. In terms of cultural cooperation, we give maximum meaning to the cultural
cooperation agreement. Also in the field of economy, education, science and planning must themselves
many opportunities to. Also, citizens' initiatives are supported in that sense. (F, V, B)
65. Social mix is ​​not an end in itself but only a means to promote social cohesion.
Local authorities and / or social housing that pursue a social mix, make
preliminary analysis of opportunities and threats for residents, with specific focus on the consequences
for vulnerable residents. The city takes into account the constraints and supporting measures
necessary to prevent social displacement and to the quality of life for all population
to guarantee. (V, B)

INTEGRATED SECURITY
Safety is a basic right for all citizens. It is a basic duty of the government to guarantee this security, and
in second order, the role of every citizen to contribute to this. To the extent that these security now is not evenly distributed,
this is also a social issue. Combating social inequality and deprivation is still one of the
Priority responses to the insecurity problem.
66. Security is not only a question of resources but also of choices, and long-term policy.
What we save today in child care, education, or psychological counseling, we pay tomorrow
potential cash to prison cells. The proposals contained in Chapters
poverty reduction, education, children and youth, work, welfare, family policy, housing and land use
create conditions for preventive action. (F, V, B)
67. Only a global approach to crime and antisocial behavior guarantees a lasting result. In addition to a quick and
specific action at moments of crisis there is a need for structural measures to the full
'Criminal justice' approach. This chain must be restored through the various links structurally
strengthen prevention, the functioning of the police, the follow-up by the judiciary, implementation of the
punishment and the reintegration into society of persons convicted. Our proposals for the safety chain
strengthen described in the chapter on safety. (F, V, B)
68. The public space is for everybody. People need to feel safe. In the design of the public
space we are aware of subjective and objective safety: customized lighting, livable streets
squares, a good mix of features. (F, V, B)
69. All actors that play a role in prevention work in prevention networks: community policing,
community guards, social workers, outreach workers and district committees. However, each time with respect
the various functions and commands. So outreach plays a vital role in society,
which can not be reduced simply to crime prevention. (F, V, B)
70. Police must for everyone near and approachable, not only tourist in city centers or residential areas,
but also in "difficult" neighborhoods. There is need for adequate community police officers on foot or by bicycle in the area available
his, and approachable as primary caregiver. (F)
71. Green pursues a proactive and solution-oriented policies that mediation efforts as an alternative way of
conflict resolution. The Flemish and Brussels governments create the conditions for a first mediation
neighbors through voluntary mediation, backed by professional support. (see Section
'Security'). (F, V, B)
219

72. Governments put campaigns in which people are motivated to contribute to a pleasurable
live: the prevention of noise, courtesy of public transport, waste management, and so on.
(F, V, B)
73. Security cameras are no adequate alternative to the nearby presence of blue on the streets. They are expensive
and have little sense if they just provide a displacement of crime. Selective use of
Cameras can be considered if it appears that it effectively in certain places or events a
offers added value (eg. metro stations). This is always done on the basis of a democratic debate and up
respect for the rules protecting privacy. The government also monitors the proper compliance with the
Rules for privébewakingscamera programs. (F, V, B)
74. Green have administrative penalties earned a permanent place in the safety chain. They form
a useful tool because they allow us to respond quickly to violations that affect the quality of life but
otherwise often remain unpunished. For a series of infringements the absurd and inefficient to the prosecutor's office and the
Court to continue the work. The (new) GAS legislation and its implementation in cities and
municipalities derailed however. The Act meets today on a number of fundamental concerns. A repressive
instrument to combat nuisance must be linked according to Green to much stricter conditions.
Green, the GAS-law at the entrance of the legislature subject to a thorough evaluation. The regulations
will be adjusted and, if necessary, be reversed. (F)

A STRONG POLICY FOR VOLUNTEERS
Green wants to develop a stimulating, volunteer friendly environment in which engagement of the Flemish and
Brussels takes shape. We want to give volunteers more recognition and appreciation. Acquire through volunteering
people skills, directly through the execution of activities or indirectly in the form of informal
learning.
75. The Minister of Culture is responsible for a coordinated policy on volunteers. (V)
76. With a view to the development of a high volunteers policy, it is essential that
organizations have sufficient resources to supervise volunteers, them properly
protect and shapes. (V, B)
77. We invest in structural recognition and support of Flemish expertise volunteering.
It builds expertise covering all aspects of volunteering (regulations, new
trends, practices nationally and internationally, provides advice and information ...) to translate the insights
to useful tools for the (sectoral) field. (V)
78. The Volunteer is Week used to set up an annual promotional campaign, using the
diversity of volunteering is brought to the attention of public opinion. Government
provide the necessary resources to conduct such a promotion through modern communication means. (F, V, B)
79. Green is not in favor of excessive regulation of volunteering. There is a need for more
coherence between different policy areas and between different levels of government. (F, V, B)
80. Green will take initiatives to volunteer with students (secondary education) and students (higher
to promote education). A commitment record is very valuable and it offers the possibility talents
young people in a different way to work for the society. (V)
81. Volunteering is very valuable, but can not be used for savings necessary
public investment to catch up. Green opposes the tendency of savings lead
which paid professionals to be replaced by volunteers. This points according to Green on a contempt for
professionalism in various social sectors. (F, V, B)
82. The law on voluntary work is under constant pressure to adapt the compensation rules. This is
detrimental to the basic framework of volunteering. Green insists that there is no further erosion of this
rules. However, volunteering is not a substitute for paid work. (V, B)
83. The authorities investigating a widening of the collective insurance for volunteers, especially for the
arrange director liability. (F, V, B)

OXYGEN GIVE TO ASSOCIATIONS
84. One in five Belgian clubs struggling with financial problems. One in three associations say even in
difficulties to get. In the socio-cultural sector dives financial figures for the first time since
measurements in the red. Not only the financial crisis appears to be the major culprit, even declining
government subsidies brings many associations in poor financial papers. The Flemish government must
own subsidy obligations in full compliance. We provide a sustainable funding framework
220

85.

86.
87.

88.

89.

221

socio-cultural organizations. Subsidies are paid promptly and correctly - with a correct and
transparent application of the indexation rules. (F, V, B)
Crowdfunding, together purchase, complementary currencies, ...: in the socio-cultural work has long
with these and other forms of financing experimented and worked. The government is looking to join
Solutions for (legal and administrative) barriers in order for this to work. (F, V, B)
The practical applications of the project E-Registry for non-profit organizations be made operational so that non-profit organizations
only their establishment, but also all other applications to handle electronically. (F)
The non-profit-law makes a distinction between small and (very) large NPOs and links a number to this
provisions for the keeping of accounts. We make sure that small non-profit organizations also automatically
other excess commitments may be redeemed. (F)
Socio-cultural associations by the legislator often required to work within a vzwstructuur. We ensure that associations with other legal structures - such as an international
non-profit organization, a public foundation or a cooperative company with social
purpose - eligible for government assistance. (F)
The European Union should pay more attention to bottom-up initiative from civil society organizations'. She
After all, are the cornerstones of a Social Europe in the pipeline. At European level we advocate a European
Statute for Civil Society Organisations (CSO). (E)

CHILDREN AND YOUTH
VISION
Children and young people make to society of tomorrow. Green goes for a policy that
horizon for young people. With our ambitious political project we want young people
content alternative to the crisis atmosphere in recent years.

Green leaves of the character and the world of young people. Of every young person. We
want to give them space to be themselves and develop. That's why we take
youth and children's rights as a starting point, and we want to encourage participation.

Children and young people have the right to use public space, like everyone else.
There remains a shortage of physical space: lack of latitude, lack of party places,
shortage of rehearsal space and creation space ... Young people and children have their 'thing
can do'. Continues its commitment to green space for children and youth, physical, mental and
cultural space.

The population explosion and the increasing dualism in the cities put a brake on
opportunities of the growing urban youth. Young people want to be heard, and yearn
concrete solution tracks. To give them the prospect of greater security and
genuine choice Green wants to invest in youth and in adjacent sectors
such as education, welfare and culture.

PROPOSALS
STRONG MAKERS FOR A COMMITTED AND CROSS-SECTIONAL
YOUTH POLICY
1.

2.

3.

4.

5.

222

The Minister of Youth should not only listen to children and young people. It comes to the rescue to
jump at the policy where the interests of children and young people are at stake. Green wants a strong
Coordinating Minister for Youth. That means fellow ministers are actively addressed on their
responsibility to make it work better youth policy. (V)
The Flemish Youth Council plays a key role in youth friendly (it) makes Flemish policy. Green
recognizes this role fully and the Flemish Youth Council wants to give room for the voices of children, young people,
youth organizations and youth advisory let hear so that they have sufficient influence on policy. (V)
Internationally recognized child rights are of course also the reference for the Flemish youth policy. The
past term of the children's commissioner's wings were clipped. Out of concern for the
children it is imperative that these para-parliamentary institution operates independently and autonomously.
(V)
That future generations have no voice today, creates a blind spot in the structural
democratic decision-making. We propose an inter-federal ombudsperson for the future
generations. Thus, all governments in this country once a guard dog, like one that can and dares bite
the interest of future generations. This need not be a new superstructure. There should be a particular
moral strength to go out. (F, V, B)
Youth policy crosses many sectors and also spreads out over various levels of government. As
you today in the youth sector and transversal to work integration, the government earlier
more difficult. Green is reducing fragmentation by opening up a larger share of the funding
for so-called crossroads initiatives, the youth sector makes cross connections with well-being,
education, culture and other areas. (F, V, B)

TO A POLICY OF CO-PRODUCTION WITH CHILDREN AND YOUTH
Children and young people have, like everyone else, their own view of their surroundings and the world. The policy must
experiences and views of children and young people recognize and use. Put young people no plans for good or
reject, but involve them from the beginning so that they participate in shaping the policy. Coproduction beyond
participation and allow young people themselves take on tasks related to the implementation of the policy.
6. Governments have often forgotten to provide clear youth-friendly information. Changing
regulations require targeted communications to all citizens. (F, V, B)
7. At the end of 2014 is rebuilt the Flemish Youth Council. Green will in the course of the new mandate
Together with the youth council make a decree to change the composition of the Youth Council to
revised. We advocate further diversification and strengthening of the General Assembly. (V)
8. Green is in favor of voting rights for 16 years. The reduction in the voting age would be an important step in
achieving full ownership of youth in our society. (F, V, B)
9. Young people have little confidence in politics. Yet most young people want to learn about politics, and
they want to be formed around politics and current affairs. With a box of citizenship we desire in
education provide more time for the political education of young people. In implementing this course is to
important that young people are made familiar through both content and method citizenship. (V)
10. Social and political education is also included in the curriculum of teacher education
so that teachers have sufficient knowledge, skills and attitudes to make young people into fully fledged
and responsible citizens. (V)
11. We want to strengthen Pupils and students participation. In school, students are actively involved in
life in and around the community school. The school should seek advice required for a number of themes to
The students. If the board does not follow the advice of the pupil, it must justify that decision.
Students who actively work for the school, in all its forms: co-writing school newspaper, organization
school festival, Environmental Working Group, ... are measured before (see Education chapter). (V)
12. Green wants a thorough evaluation of the new management and policy (BBC), in collaboration with the
local governments. The Flemish government must complete this evaluation at the latest in 2016, so they conclusions
timely into practice. Important considerations in this assessment are transparency (now often
limited by lack of detail information) and participation of children and young people. Decreasing the
planning burden is a good thing (and would at some point may go even further), but should at the same time
involvement and participation will not become eroded. In the past there were significant participation conditions
linked to the sectoral policies, such as the youth policy. The new BBC offers theoretical
opportunities for enhanced, more comprehensive participation, but in practice in many municipalities net
participation to fall away. (V)
13. For the first time Dutch-speaking and Francophone youth actions in Brussels brought together within
Platform It Works / Ca Marche. Green wants to go further in the future on this road and the Brussels
Youth policy tuning to multilingual, multicultural capital. The challenges facing young people in Brussels
it must not be locked up in the complex structures of the capital. (B)

SPACE FOR CHILDREN AND YOUTH
Child or young the last few years more and more subject to conditions. Control and sanctioning lurk
around the corner. In school, students are punished for speaking their home language and become more and more pupils
expelled from school. The whole discussion about lowering the age of the GAS fines illustrates a trend
whereby our society as a whole increasingly responds with punishment and social control. Green remains committed to
space for children and young people, both physical, mental and cultural space. According to Green and children must
young people their right to be young can take full.
14. Green believes that children and youth in every city or village carefree and safe should be their thing
do: play football, cycling, skating, "loitering" and so on. Naturally with respect for other people,
but the increasing intolerance decline should be halted. Green opposes
all kinds of direct or indirect hangout prohibited. (F, V, B)
15. Other destinations are more opened to multiple use or shared use by young people.
Not everything is always and everywhere, but much more than is currently the case. Green therefore wants far more use
creating the potential for use by youth sports, nature and forest areas, parks and
agricultural areas, playable ponds and parks. Make schoolyards neighborhood squares. We want
encourage schools to set their squares open to the neighborhood and to make them more playable. (F, V, B)
223

16. play streets during the holidays is a good initiative, but only temporarily. Safe zone 30 in all residential areas
is a first step. In addition, Green also wants more permanent residential areas and play streets. (V, B)
17. New areas we want an explicit child-centered design. Existing neighborhoods could commemorated in that direction
be. Architects and planners should concentrate more on children's height and urban designs that also
children and young people are (be) liveable. At the request of young people can also
breakdance mats to lay, graffiti zones meet, play with water and fountains, skate centers, ... (F,
V, B)
18. youth facilities to be put on the map by the implementation of a GIS layer youth. This GIS layer in which specific geographical information is recorded - is also a tool to the position of
youth centers, and other facilities such as play areas, hunting areas, zebra crossings, ... better coordinate to
vote. In consultation with the tax authorities, we link the necessary information so that nationally recognized
youth movements can be easily exempted from property tax. (V, B)
19. We create uniformity in the proliferation of requirements of local regulations about camp
waste, campfire rules, notification and using playgrounds. (V, B)
20. Green goes for a stimulating and supportive party policy: more uniformity in laws and regulations and
a suitable choice of party rooms. New regulation must not impose any constraint on the commitment of
youngsters. We reduce regulatory and administrative burdens to a minimum and focusing on
incentives. An advisory committee of experts, the Flemish Government Architect and the (young)
Users create a guide to the 'ideal party venue. (V, B)
21. Green advocates sustainable celebrations. For example, use can be made of environment-friendly lighting and
reusable cups. Organizers spree that are developing such initiatives should be rewarded with a
helping hand in the form of a grant. Also, when building or remodeling spree infrastructure
Sustainability criteria deserve more attention. Sufficient bicycle parking, improved insulation and
efficient heating systems are good examples of this. (F, V, B)
22. Young people have a right to mobility. Enhance mobility of children and young people by focusing on a
network of slow roads and connections. The repair of roads has to be done custom bikes and
pedestrians. A lot of pupils and students are users of public transport. Often they stand
packed in train, tram or bus. Green is for the rapid introduction of a public transport pass for all
transport companies: De Lijn, STIB, TEC and SNCB. Youngsters under 26 must be this map
purchase at a reasonable price. Besides a general extension of the offer, there is a need for
number of measures tailored to young people. Group transport Maps and also a better response to the
peak hours for students in student accomodation. Friday and Sunday evenings, especially in the cities, there is a need for more
late night transport. At the weekend there is also a need for night transport. Lay in the central cities we bring on Fridays Saturday buses in which young people from the surrounding communities. In the non-urban
Green areas wishes to promote the use taxi through a general taxi number and taxi vouchers. (V, B)
23. Green opposes the use of municipal administrative sanctions (GAS) for repressive action to
taken against minors. GAS used for trivialities like sitting on railings from banks, attracts more
discontent and unrest than it really combats annoying nuisance. Complaints about noisy children and
young people are sometimes justified, but can be avoided by sophisticated physical and human interventions.
Green seeks more than symptom management, and focuses on prevention and structural solutions. Green will be the
GAS-law at the entrance of the legislature subject to a thorough evaluation. The regulation will be
adjusted and if necessary undone. (see chapter safety). (F)

YOUNG PEOPLE WANT A WORLD THAT IS GOOD FOR PEOPLE AND PLANET.
24. Global climate change presents us with immense challenges. Insufficient and inadequate
measures provide an expensive bill. It must not be passed on to the youth of
today and future generations. Green wants to pursue a policy that a horizon for young people. With
strong environmental ambitions, we want to offer young people an alternative to the crisis atmosphere of the past
years. (F, V, B)
25. Children and young people are more vulnerable in traffic but also when it comes to effects on environment
health for example. Green advocates the introduction of a child norm in drafting legislation. We
bring the risks in these children today walk in traffic, the pollution of their environment,
the contaminants in their diet and the lack of play space. (F, V, B)
26. Young people want a world that is good for people and the planet. They worry about the increasing
socio-economic challenges and environmental issues becoming dramatic. Education for sustainable

224

development gets an important place in education. And we support and encourage young people with a
study or work initiative in the field of sustainability through environmental education grants (Environmental education). (V)
27. The Flemish Climate Plan gave the youngsters insufficient. This plan will be reviewed in the next
Legislatures. Young people also ask for a system that meets the needs of the present
generation without depriving future generations the same opportunity. The government will consider this to be in
putting young people and contribute to this happy to do their bit. (V)

YOUTH IN VULNERABLE POSITIONS EARN EXTRA CARE
The growing gap between winners and losers in our youth. Child poverty continues to rise. Nearly one in five children live in
poverty. Flanders does better than Belgium as a region in its entirety, but here is the barometer by storms. The
social needs among younger generations are enormous. We want the next few years, hard to deploy.
28. One in ten children live in poverty in wealthy Flanders. A rising trend. Time for a structural and
bold policy. To make an emancipation machine back into education and the wellbeing of
Students to raise, we mainly want to invest more in the early years of children. Green jealous
For a comprehensive care and training that will integrate offered at school. Secondary education
will be reformed to close the inequality gap in education. Flanders is using the additional
powers to implement a robust social policy (see Education chapter). (V, B)
29. Young people remain vulnerable in the labor market, especially in times of crisis. The Black Book Interim teaches that
young people sometimes be treated as merchandise. Green makes a series of structural proposals for the
to tackle youth unemployment, with young people as full participants in society
seen. We want to impose any company to fill in 1% of their workforce to young people who
have left school. Thus, companies with their own future, and get the youth in Belgium
perspective that Europe wants to give them. (F, V, B) (See Chapter work.)
30. An affordable home is for many young people find very difficult. Immediately buy a home for many
start-up, after all, not be feasible. We reform the housing bonus so cool prices and Youth
become accessible. Green also wants more social housing and the regulation of rents in the private
market. We also work on existing legal and administrative obstacles to ensure that together homes, both private and
combines collective space, encouraging (see Chapter Housing). (V, B)
31. They are less prominent in the media but the waiting lists in youth are equally long and so
possibly even worse than the waiting lists in care for persons with disabilities. A child care and
support needs in coming months the necessary assistance and support, after all, has huge
affect his or her chances. Green has a detailed plan to the upheavals of the youth to
Suits (see chapter Welfare). (V, B)
32. Congested urban neighborhoods have little to offer to children and young people. Also knows the rural area
a small, less visible group of young people who have not completed their schooling, little
perspective have on employment and lack the necessary stability in their lives. In these places, many
More efforts are needed to give young people a new perspective. In turn neglected urban areas
urban functions back into the neighborhoods: this means a pleasant and safe environment with interesting
initiatives such jeugdcafés, youth, youth, ... (F, V, B)
33. Low-threshold and approachable initiatives, such as community animation or community sports, should be extended.
In these neighborhoods Green wants to give opportunities to minority organizations to further develop innovative
processes to set up. (V, B)
34. The outreach, central figures and other "site specific" workers make - both in towns and in
smaller municipalities - the difference. They make contact with young people who feel no connection with the
society. Instead of saving in these methods, Green would like to just invest in.
35. Through rebate systems - set up by the CPAS and different sectors - young people can more easily
boarding the leisure offer. (F, V, B)
36. Green wants the welfare and health policy efforts for prevention. The debate on alcohol and
tobacco use by young people frequently focuses on prohibited, while betting much stronger and can
It is necessary to prevention. All those involved have a responsibility: youth, parents,
beverage producers, education, youth work, publicans, and so on. The policy should provide conditions
to make young people more resilient. With problematic use appropriate guidance necessary. beside
we advocate a policy that focuses the spotlight on producers. Green argues for better control
advertising of alcoholic and tobacco products. (F, V, B)
37. Young people need open information about relationships and sexuality, safe sex, sexually
transmitted diseases and pregnancies. Green again wants more attention
225

38.

39.

40.

41.

42.

prevention campaigns about sexually transmitted diseases and the use of contraceptives to
To avoid unsafe sex. (V, B)
Sexual consent. A youth of sixteen or older who have any form of sexual contact
is someone who is 15 years or younger, is now punishable by reason of indecent assault. Also, if the
youngster of fifteen has agreed. The legislature assumes that at a young age not
full can give consent. Is one of these young people below the age of fourteen years, then the talks
legislator even rape. Voted the younger there so bad, then it continues to assault the
accountability. This creates uncertainty education. It creates a taboo, especially in residential
youth facilities, while young people need that extra support and guidance. Green proposes on this
delicate matter to have a serene debate. (F)
Children and young people are a key target for marketers. Day after day they are through television, radio,
Internet and cell phone bombarded with advertising messages about new products, trendy brands and the latest fads.
Children and young people, however, are particularly vulnerable and dependent. In addition to federal measures to improve
consumer protection, there is need for more awareness of literacy through education. (F, V, B)
Minor asylum seekers being expelled must be allowed to finish their education.
Young people who have a diploma, after all, are better equipped in their home country a
future build out. In consultation with the communities, the federal government is working out an arrangement under
what conditions the residence of young people - and with them cohabiting parents or other
educators - can be temporarily extended. (F, V, B)
The number of unaccompanied minors has increased considerably in recent years. Those who are recognized or subsidiary
grant protection, knock on CPAS to claim a wage equivalent. But they
remain empty-handed because local authorities are the Flemish and federal government to them
little support. Green requires that we comply with our international commitments and calls for a serene and
depth debate to accommodate this vulnerable group in a qualitative way. A return to the
native has only succeed if it can be prepared in consultation with the younger, and therefore
at the time of registering as part of a future project. (F, V, B)
Young people who are anchored here, can not simply return to countries of origin and rely on
itself. Green introduced a bill for a Children's Pardon. This bill wants a particular group
protect young people by regularizing their stay (see Chapter asylum and migration). (F)

INITIATIVE and creativity FREE JOB GIVING
43. Green Primary carries a warm heart. Green wants to both youth work focused on specific
target support and efforts for the accessibility of existing organizations. Much
self-help organizations with ethnic minorities have developed their own forms of youth
few interact with the 'classic' youth. Green wants to support additional efforts
management training and exchange between the two. It also requires a stronger perspective on diversity in the
regular youth policy. Diversity is not only bring color in organization and policy, but above all learn
dealing with differences and similarities. This should be coordinated happen to other policies such as
education, sport and wellness. Supporting organizations of ethnic minorities and integration
target groups in existing unions are not opposed but complementary. Green advocates the
continuing to support organizations that focus on socially disadvantaged children and
youngsters. (V, B)
44. We are investing in projects that give recognition to informal learning. The
youth competence centers are industry-breaking and should be pursued. Green advocates a wide
completion of training opportunities in the Primary. Individual young people, quite apart from any solid
associational, given opportunities to grab a training package from Primary. Through a EVCtraject - Recognition of Prior Learning - is knowledge and experience of young people in Primary
valorized in an 'experience certificate'. (V, B)

45. Youth clubs are meeting places that are realized by and for young people. The power and
the wealth of a youth lies in the participation and co-ownership of young people in the
organization. Green wants to strengthen the network of youth centers in Flanders. In addition to the
important social function they perform, will support Green youth to further their
incorporate innovative role in terms of diversity, youth, attention to vulnerable
groups, community schools and sense of creativity and entrepreneurship.
46. ​​Flanders and Brussels have many talented artists: musicians, actors, visual artists, ... Everywhere
young people are working to develop their talents. Green will assist them as much as possible in their artistic
226

47.
48.

49.

50.

227

development and their potential career. Therefore it is essential to provide opportunities for novice stage
artists. Green wants space for creativity, with rehearsal rooms for music or theater groups and
studio spaces for those who with other young people want to work in each municipality. (V, B)
The Flemish Government supports local governments to encourage young, fledgling artists
an impulse subsidy. (V, B)
Green will not only many people as possible to participate in culture, but mainly wants everyone
chance to come in contact with various forms of culture. It is just the multifaceted culture which
enriches. A cultural policy that takes into account the question naturally starts from the bottom up, leaving out
that lives in neighborhoods and districts. Qualitative social artistic practices that focus specifically on password
and vulnerable groups need to be extra supported (see also Chapter Culture). (V, B)
Games are not to imagine the world of young people. The question is not how we should games
fight, but how we read critically and play. There is a need for more scientific research on
the effects and possibilities of new media and information and awareness campaigns for both
children and young people and parents and teachers. (V, B)
Television, internet, games, smart phones, and so play an important role in the lives of children and
youngsters. Today, they grow up as the native speakers of a digital game culture. We take additional
initiatives for a safe and responsible media environment. At school and in informal learning contexts is
paid attention to the way children and young people learn to consciously and critically handle
various media. They also learn to express themselves look quite with it.

ELDERLY
VISION
More and more people are getting older. This is an achievement of our
welfare. It is also a resource for the community. Many older people are
active, they do volunteer, they catch the grandchildren and do other
caring. Green wants the role of the elderly appreciate much more. We call for a
including the elderly, because attention to the elderly is reflected in many policy areas.

The government plays an essential role in shaping more intergenerational
justice and solidarity. Green wants to help shape a challenging project
wealth building where all generations can benefit from.

The various authorities set an ambitious senior citizens on legs, along with
seniors. Dé older does not exist. Until the age group of 60-somethings belong
different generations. We take into account the different needs of all
elderly. Green wants to give everyone the chance of a comfortable old age.

Especially those over 80 will increase dramatically in the coming years. Parallel to this will
also the need for support and care will increase. Green wants to creatively search for
appropriate care to let elderly people requiring care as long as possible in their own neighborhood
live.

PROPOSALS
EVERY OLDER HUMANE INCOME THROUGH THE CLOSING LIMIT
The starting point is to preserve the autonomy of the elderly. A stable and sufficient income is of
interest. For many older people is not the case: one in five Belgian elderly people at risk of poverty. Some
qualify this by saying that many older people own a home. But they forgot to tell adamant that this house
also requires maintenance and that more and more elderly people struggling to pay the energy bill of their home. For
Green is the obvious: poverty among the elderly is a modern welfare unworthy. The state pension is a
dual task: it must protect every elderly against poverty, but at the same time be sufficient to some
to maintain standard of living.
1.

2.

228

There will be an absolute floor under our pension. This guarantees the right to a
dignified old age for everyone. Any pension starts counting from the poverty line and not from
the nuleurogrens. Through a universal basic pension Green ensures that people beyond retirement
age do not end up below the poverty line. In 2013 it is about 1000 euros, except for whom no year
has been working and living together, which gets 750 euros. The basic pension you get based on citizenship, as in
Netherlands, and not on the basis of distance traveled career. The basic pension is a huge administrative
simplification. The means test on the income for the elderly (GRAPA) is no longer
necessary, just as the complex calculation of the minimum pension. Thanks to the basic pension can
pension rights are automatically assigned in a very efficient manner. So retirees can not
more fall by the wayside because they do not know their rights. The more costs we finance through the extinction of the
family, divorce and survivors' pensions, the reduction of tax incentives for the third pillar, the
saving on administration and capping pensions up to four times the amount of
poverty line. (F)
Within Europe, we reverse the race to the social soil. Now competes each country to pension costs as
low as possible to maintain. Instead, Member States shall decide together to minimum standards for pensions
enter which are sufficient to eradicate poverty. We investigate the possibility of a European
basic pension to enter which can vary based on national poverty lines. So we put unfair
competition to cooperation. (E)

3.

The European Union wants 2020 20 million fewer people in poverty, but occurs at the social level too weak
in order to achieve this. Therefore Green wants a stronger European instruments for
poverty, for example, binding European directives. Specifically for the elderly will be a Directive with the
target to reduce poverty among the elderly drastically by 2020. Another directive provides that all
pension payments to be made and therefore indexed not only linked, but also
grow along with the evolution of wages in each Member State. (E)

(RESIDENTIAL) CARE FOR THE ELDERLY
Some 100,000 elderly people are on a waiting list for residential care centers. About this waiting is conducted considerable discussion.
What is certain is that 50% of applications for inclusion can only be completed after six months, which is far too
long. Also stands as an indisputable that Flanders is lagging behind its self-imposed conservative plan data,
there are still 20 000 places short. Finally there is the verwitting in aging: by 2020 come to
an estimated 80,000 over-85s on. The waiting lists are a prosperous region like Flanders unworthy. With the sixth
State reform Flanders and Brussels have a number of important powers, including in the field of
elderly. For Green, this is an excellent opportunity to implement a new policy. To care and attend to the wants
older as long as possible to preserve its autonomy and not lonely. Green wants older people as long as possible in their
own familiar neighborhood let live. By investing in this area and in the network of people can step into a
nursing often be postponed. This requires not only new, corporate and small-scale residential important,
but this also requires a rethinking of the traditional nursing facilities. We guarantee access and the
adapted housing affordability and care for every older.
The finding that there is a shortage of places in nursing homes, the fact remains that the collective concentration of
elderly people at one particular place to live reflects a certain bankruptcy of a society in which an intergenerational
cohabitation is gradually becoming the exception rather than the rule. A retirement home, the modern also may the name
his is a reserve of individuals who are in a hyperactive society does not really belong at home. The understandable fear
having to leave the familiar surroundings and to be dependent on the ongoing assistance
Foreign aid workers and at the same time still having to compromise on respect for personal privacy, can not simply be
dismissed as unreasonable and bigoted. The move to a nursing home is rightly perceived as a loss and
announcing that this is the "last stop".
4. The regulations on safety and quality in residential care centers is vast and complex. Therefore, it is
essential to permanently keep these rules critically daylight. There will be a thorough
analysis of all the rules imposed on residential care from the perspective of quality of life
the elderly. There will be more room for initiative and responsibility of the residential care facilities
how quality of life for their residents fill daily. (V, B)
5. Increasing the professionalism guarantees the quality. The financing and staffing
the residential care center is adjusted to move towards an ever-greater need of care
residents. Thus degrading savings on the number of used diapers or malnutrition
residents because too few personnel to help avoid when eating. (V, B)
6. There is a need for smaller and more salvaged facilities than the current large-scale residential care. In
Britain there are now hundreds of so-called Abbeyfield homes, together home initiatives
elderly. The emphasis is mainly on live together and is therefore an answer to loneliness. In Brussels
there are now some of these initiatives. Green will this expand and strengthen. (V, B)
7. The current legislation and regulations have been prepared from the perspective of the current residential care centers. The
acute lack ensures that only the most dependent elderly people are included which
regulations and standards mainly constrict in this direction. In the Green concept is in addition to care
clearly to be an emphasis on living together. Legislation and regulations should therefore in that sense
to be adjusted. (V, B)
8. Green resolutely advocates a neighborhood or town and not tied to a compartmentalized approach. We provide for any
district or (sub) municipality adapted housing for seniors, persons with disabilities or other
support needs. We want to strengthen local service centers and expand them into the heart of
an inclusive approach. From the local service, we support people in the activities of the
daily lives through a 24-hour-on-24 ADL assistance post. An ADL assistant helps people with activities
of everyday life such as getting out of bed, going to the toilet ... This means that even people who care
need to continue living in their neighborhood. The local service is also the pivot write for the organization of the
care in the neighborhood. The Flemish and Brussels government reorients resources and supports local
authorities in the development of district-specific service centers. (V, B)
9. Good examples such as the first residential care district in Wervik, which was achieved through a project grant
be structurally embedded in the policy. (V, B)
229

10. Green also calls on palliative care for a clear policy and clearly predetermined and the
occupant communicated procedures for euthanasia. (V, B)
11. The work is made of participation and involvement of the residents and their representatives in the
care facilities. (V, B)
12. Like the rest of society, will make the welfare sector with a huge growth in the diversity.
Measures to support the welfare of these varying cultural backgrounds to
will not be a luxury. The Agency Integration and Citizenship given the task around knowledge
strengthen interculturalisation in care. Business people who want to trade with foreign countries
continents can go to have training or manuals available on cultural differences. So
it is also possible to take concrete actions for the welfare. Organizes
refresher courses and also works with the training as a social worker. (V, B)
13. There is a need for more attention to intercultural care. Green wants the staff in the welfare sector
prepare for more color and diversity. Based on diversity organizations to concrete
take actions in this field. We encourage training for staff on how to deal with
diversity among the public. That may be about differences in culture, language, religious beliefs,
eating habits, leisure activities, and so on. (V, B)
14. The intensity of care makes the stay in the nursing home priceless for a lot of people. A
month bill of 1500 euro surpasses many pensions. We procure the maintenance obligation for
dependent elderly people off. Children's maintenance obligation for their dependents, elderly parents
today makes for great injustices. One CPAS progresses aid back, not the other.
Moreover, this often causes severe tensions within families. Many elderly people feel uncomfortable
'dependents' to be covered by their children. Green wants the abolition of the maintenance obligation
dependent elderly people unless people themselves have been in a situation of inability by
gifts to their children, grandchildren or other relatives. Together with a reinforcement of the
health insurance and care provision is to ensure a quality and affordable care a
government task. (F)
15. Green will make the nursing home bill paid by higher premiums of health insurance. Now each will receive
occupant of a residential care center a premium of 130 euros per month. This premium does not even cover 10% of the
invoice. This premium must be raised so that it is large enough to be a part of the nursing home bill
pay. (V)
16. In the context of the sixth state reform, the resources of the Allowance for Assistance to
Aged (APA), this is an additional charge for heavy dependents aged over 65 with a low
income. In Flanders we integrate the resources we in the Flemish Care Insurance (V) and performs in Brussels
the Joint Community this task (B). There will be a simple, transparent and
universal indicator instrument inschaalt the need for care for people. (V, B)
17. In the context of the sixth state reform also remained the federal mobility aids
transferred. Green wants a one-stop shop for every person who needs a mobility aid, including
Brussels. The transfer provides the opportunity for the development of an age-independent policy tools. On
Currently, a person whose disability after age 65 only comes not use yet
the same tools as a person whose handicap has previously emerged.

HEALTHY AGEING
Green emphasizes the link between environment and health, between a healthy environment and a healthy human being. Older people are
including a particularly vulnerable group. The government has the responsibility to create a healthy environment too
guarantee as long as possible so that everyone can live a healthy quality of life. The program includes a separate
chapter health. Here we pick out only some proposals forward.
18. Green wants to align environmental and health standards on the health risks to vulnerable
groups in society, such as children, the elderly, pregnant women, asthma and heart patients ... We want
establish a policy of chemical hygiene. (F, V, B)
19. We encourage advance care planning. In addition, think of the need of care or patient, his family and the
caregivers together after that make sure at what time will be needed in the future.
20. When older people are sick, they should heal in a healthy way. Since the redundant hear
drugs, gratuitous technical performance and therapeutic obstinacy not to. These are bad
for our health and well-being, time for the wallet and priceless health insurance.
Green wants to stimulate public debate on therapeutic persistence at the end of life.
Physicians need to inform people better about what treatments to add quality of life and what
not (F). These are not easy conversations and therefore doctors and nurses have time for here
230

and receive the necessary psychological support is provided. We make room for these times by means of a less
performance-based funding. (F)
21. Green wants the role of the pharmacist in primary care further strengthen. For older and chronic
sick people and for residents of nursing homes in particular, it is important that someone overview
stores across the pillbox. The pharmacist is therefore the right person, in close consultation with the doctor and
other care providers. Each nursing home resident receives regular medication evaluation to see if there
medication can be deleted or better dosed. If this is not enough, we enter the living centers
a flat fee for medication in order to prevent overconsumption. For the chronically ill and the elderly outside
the nursing home a pharmacist for a regular evaluation of the medication schedule.
22. Dementia is working on an exponential rise. We support the continuation of initiatives
"Dementia friendly community" to which people with dementia and their carers valuable
participate. (F) We recognize and subsidize the function of reference doctor dementia within the GP circuit
and reference person dementia in home care, the nursing home and the hospital. This
reference person is the point of contact and support center for colleagues on questions about
own patients with dementia. (F)
23. With the transfer of palliative care in Flanders there will be a substantial increase in the
budget for palliative care and networking. The demand for these precautions is currently greater than what the
Palliative care teams based resources can offer. (V)

JOBS ON THE LABOUR MARKET AND BEYOND
Older people are not passive at all. Many elderly people are active in the labor market, as well as his immense elderly
active as a carer or volunteer. According to Green Determined action is needed for older workers
and to support carers and volunteers.
24. Five days job-related training per year for all employees. Investing in staff training
is important. This keeps the skills of workers level and employability in the future
guaranteed. Older workers remain more than others excluded from education and show
accelerated decrease their employment opportunities. Therefore, we give each employee a right to at least five days
job-related training per year. For businesses, this is a budget neutral adaptation, for five days of training
per employee are equivalent to measure the difficult 1.9 percent mandatory investment in training now
applies to. The right to training time can be guaranteed in sectoral collective agreements, which may vary by sector
agreed to be how education law is concretely implemented. (F)
25. Tandem Plan to work with young and old in times of crisis. In crisis periods are youths
first victim of the limited number of jobs created. The budget Neutral Tandem Plan
Green is an adequate answer. We provide older workers who want the opportunity to work part time
go to work, and through mentoring and training in the workplace their skills transfer to younger
employees. This allows elderly people to stay longer in the workforce in a workable way. And get
young people the chance to gain their first experience. (F, V, B)
26. All carers, including those who previously were not in the labor market, will be appointed the volunteer status.
This statute guarantees undertaken the construction of social rights for those everyday care, unemployment, pension,
disability, health care. Per person recognized helped more than one caregiver (part time)
be and the statute is also possible after moving to a nursing home. (F)
27. Who combines care with a job, gets right to care with corresponding allowances. The existing
fixed set of time rights to care evolves step by step in the direction of an insurance logic.
Within that logic, we give care according to the (proven) emergency presents itself. Those who want or need
caregiving, more time rights. This can be provided that an audit of the care time needed by a paramedical
team. The right to leave through death, we extend to one week. (F)
28. Caregivers get a care premium (V, B). For caregivers who take care and thus
have a family income below the poverty line, the health insurance premium adjusts the difference between the poverty line in.
(V, B) When caregivers in unemployment or a living wage with the activation process is temporarily suspended. (F)
29. We provide more psychosocial support for carers, particularly for those with
takes care of dementia. (V, B)
30. We will increase it to limited tax ceiling for the reimbursement of expenses for volunteers in the care sector. (F)
31. We extend respite care, both voluntary and professional. Respite care facilities which are
carers occasionally can leave the care to someone else. We turn babysitter volunteers and
give their coordination in the hands of the local service center (LDC). The Flemish and Brussels
government subsidize this form of care. (V, B)
231

INVOLVEMENT AND PARTICIPATION OF OLDER PERSONS
When Green advocates including the elderly, which also means that attention to the specific
and needs of the elderly population is accomplished in collaboration with the elderly. The policy planning is done in
close consultation with the elderly themselves.
32. The various authorities elderly have a relevant role in policy research.
Commitment, involvement and participation of older people in the political process is a necessity and
a gain for democracy. The presence of older people in the various relevant consultation and
consultative bodies should be anchored at all policy levels.
33. The existing ones are invaluable. These consist not only of persons who
association represent, but also from non-connected elderly. Members of these advisory councils are also
visibly present in other federal and regional consultative bodies. An interactive management style means that
governments open and clear communication towards the elderly. (F, V, B)
34. There should also be included stronger safeguards for advice to make a permanent feature within
the decision of all the powers that are of strategic importance for the elderly. On all
areas of social, civil, economic, political and cultural life as elderly
full partners continue to be recognized and continue to play an active role. The opinions expressed
due weight must be given. (F, V, B)
35. Older people are too much and too quickly directed to age-specific effects. Older people deserve Organizations
support, but it is important that older people remain active in the existing sports, leisure and
cultural associations. (V, B)

232

ETHNIC-CULTURAL DIVERSITY
VISION
After two decades in which the immigration attained sustained record highs, Flanders
and Brussels entered a new phase of their history: the super-diverse society.
Although these superdiversity our country demographically, economically and culturally pushes forward,
she is difficult. Feelings of uncertainty and insecurity are real, both for whom
migrate into the host society.

For Green, the question is not how we can eliminate this reality, but how we
cope with. Super Diversity is not good or bad, but it is our responsibility
- Whatever the origin or how long or short, we are part of this society - to make it a
to success.

The problem is that the current policy is stuck in the past. It fosters a safe
feeling us / them thinking and trying to enforce assimilation. This is not the right path, because
leading to a further widening social inequality and to more polarization. People and
communities are pitted against each other.

Green goes for a different scenario. We want to work at all levels of the
Fighting deprivation. Providing opportunities to young people in education. Match
treatment in employment. This will lead to a much stronger emancipation.
Emancipation is indeed rarely due to the compulsion to adapt. It stems from
social mobility. More polarization increases anxiety. Offer emancipation and empowerment
perspective.

Green is developing a comprehensive and effective program that the positive forces of a
mobilizes diverse society. A policy that has the potential of cultural diversity
wants to tap maximum departure of two key principles: mutual recognition
and equal participation in society. In this way we offer the prospect of a
hopeful future for all.

PROPOSALS
INTEGRATION AS A POSITIVE MODEL CITIZENS
All citizens and communities have the right to a feeling of belonging. That is a basic requirement for
succeed in a society like ours. This applies to both individuals and communities. Social recognition
crucial for the identity and self-esteem of individuals. Citizenship is for everyone, even if you are not the dominant
culture belongs. Such recognition is crucial to know and accept yourself to feel welcome.
Green wants to fully draw the map of cultural freedom. If we based on social and political citizenship
community building do, we can see the tensions that multiculturalism brings one step back
let us. That will afford us as a society much more than the tiresome discussions on headscarf bans,
Flemish lion flags in town halls or prohibited use of language on the playground.
1. Green will actively organize the dialogue. It is essential that individuals and communities with permanent
together in dialogue to understand each other and to make clear agreements. The government needs to
structured dialogue between communities organize permanent. Not only according to ethnocultural
lines but also between the communities of the young, elderly, between ideologies, and so on. (F,
V, B)
2. As regards the integration policy, according to Green is the local government in the best position of
integration to create greater success by all citizens with better information on what integration is and what
it can mean. In globo we advocate a model for a shorter introductory primary
233

3.

integration process and a more extensive and differentiated secondary integration program. The extension of
secondary pathways may be more anticipated sustainable employment, education and leisure. (V, B)
Green is a model where the final responsibility and direction of integration in
the hands of local governments. We advocate decentralized, multidisciplinary centers with a open
range of services and information provision (housing, education, health ...). This requires more
cooperation and coordination between social services, education leavers, job placement and
civic actors. (V, B)

4.

The reform of the integration sector, according to Green a nonsensical operation. The midfield was
offside and put the entire operation will be housed in a new government agency under
direct control of the minister. That is a very bad thing. Integration Work must be able to respond flexibly to
Offering local needs and customization. Green believes strongly in local anchoring and integration of services
closer to the newcomers. (V, B)
5. The external autonomous agency (EVA) Integration and Integration Green sees more of a role
play as a center of expertise. The EVA facilitates exchanges between local authorities and experts on
level of integration and inclusion. (V, B)
6. Green attaches importance to the methodology of intercultural mediators. They not only act as an interpreter but
give concrete help and support, identify bottlenecks, mediate and so on. (V, B)
7. The government monitors the position of ethnic minorities in all areas of society. This
is based on the nationality history of the ancestors by linking existing databases
the National Register and the Crossroads Bank Social Security. They used it systematically to monitor and
evaluation of actions aimed at interculturalisation and proportional participation of ethnic
minorities. (F, V, B)
8. The action plan interculturalisation for the sectors of culture, youth and sport again
policy. This plan encourages organizations to take interculturalisation as a starting point in their
policy and practice operation, both in personnel and volunteer policy and within the governing bodies. (V, B)
9. Green wants to expand voting rights for non-nationals and relax. We want the right to vote for non Belgians as it now exists for expanding the municipal elections at other levels. beside
We want to simplify the current registration procedure in the municipal elections. Must today
non-Belgians who want to vote are at least three months before the local elections themselves
register on the electoral roll. We want also can register from 2018 until the day of the
elections through simple registration at the polling station. (F, V, B)
10. The Flemish Government in consultation with other levels of government a full
location policy for Travellers. If we act on the conclusions of the European
Committee on Social Rights of the Council of Europe. (V, B)

Zero tolerance AGAINST DISCRIMINATION AND RACISM
11.

There will be information campaigns for victims and witnesses of discrimination about their rights and
sensitize to do report this to the competent authorities. (F, V, B)
12. The proactive approach of discrimination is a top priority of all relevant inspection. She
get this specific powers and investigative tools to demonstrate racism and discrimination
or disprove. (F, V, B)
13. There will be a framework decree for the validity of specific detection instruments on
discrimination. This makes it easier for inspection services, organizations and individuals suspected
to prove or disprove discrimination. (F, V, B)
14. In order to tackle discrimination, in addition to a sensitizing approach, a monitoring and
punitive approach. As in the Brussels Region, Flanders start with projects around the
practice tests. When practice tests get employers (fake) applicants on the floor and to monitor government
or discriminated against. They are useful to enter into dialogue with the employer, or may like
submit evidence in any subsequent legal proceedings. Companies here only be a score
first sensitized and warned a second time will follow inexorably sanctions.
15. All existing public and private hotlines where discrimination is reported (including those of the immobilization and
Interim sector, VDAB and Actiris, ombudsmen, trade unions, inspection, educational institutions and others) use the
notification and registration Metis interfederal center for equal opportunities and combating
discrimination and racism. (F, V, B)

234

16. The Flemish action plan to combat work-related discrimination (ABAD) is revalued
a real policy. In addition, the fight against discrimination is a priority for the Inspection Work
and Social Economy, with an ambitious to get some specific checks annually. (V)

EDUCATION AS A LEVER FOR UPWARD MOBILITY
Green wants a high level Flemish education that reflects the diversity in society and its added value
exploited. An education where children and adolescents can develop regardless of their background according to their talents
and interests. This chapter includes proposals related to the diversity policy at school. The
education is fully incorporated into the chapter education.
17. Green is for the introduction of a eenheidsvak citizenship, philosophy and ideology "in both the
free as in public education, with an equivalent of 2 hours per week during the compulsory schooling age. With this box
we want to make more space for issues related to citizenship, moral
responsibility, the place of ideologies in our society and our core values
freedom, equality, tolerance and democracy. Religious subjects are optional
offered. (V)
18. Parents and pupils with a migration background are often - unconsciously and often implicitly - on a
stereotyped approach. The (re) formation and guidance of teachers will pay more attention
the background of all students and the ability of teachers to themselves herein to in
life. Subject content will be expanded with an eye for interculturalisation, socio-economic disparities and
changed family situations. Detecting and dealing with poverty must also be thoroughly covered. (V)
19. The Government supports schools in implementing reasonable accommodation for religious school
minorities. If they constitute a disproportionate burden on school organization, are negotiated
value adjustments for successful coexistence in school. (V)
20. Green is against the ban on religious signs at school. We are in favor of an initiative
which is based on the free choice of the individual, where a number of clear conditions be committed to
to intervene in the event of undue pressure. (V)
21. In secondary education Reception classes are organized today for newcomers (OKAN). Through the
increasing number of very young newcomers, we advocate the establishment of full-fledged

Reception classes for children under twelve. Green is a system in which other languages
Students enroll in their own school, but with the OKAN hours of a number of schools in the same area
cross-network are merged. As part of the reception classes for foreign language
newcomers coming routes adapted for Roma children. (V)
22. Improved transition to mainstream education can by flexibility and bridging, where more
combinations from mainstream and OKAN education possible. We also call for a better registration and
tracking system so that a file containing relevant data with the newcomer travels when he or she
school changes. Finally, we argue for a better aftercare for ex-graders welcome. A few extra hours
support per week throughout the school career is not a luxury. (V)
23. Undocumented children and children of asylum seekers are vulnerable because of their residency status. This
requires an appropriate policy. All schools write children with a precarious residence status in and get
receive the necessary support. For these children it is essential to improve communication between the schools
to improve and promote the transfer of information. The individual file plays for Green this one
key. (V)
24. Minor asylum seekers being expelled must be allowed to finish their education.
Young people who have a diploma, after all, are better equipped in their home country a
future build out. In consultation with the communities, the federal government is working out an arrangement under
what conditions the residence of young people - and possibly those of their families - can temporarily
be extended. (F, F)
25. The Flemish Government, in collaboration with universities and colleges an action plan to the higher
democratize education with concrete targets and achievable goals. Within this Action Plan
plenty of attention for more diversity in higher education: systems, coaching, tutoring,
flow guidance, redirection through cross-institutional counseling, remedial
language courses and sanctioning anti-discrimination policy in an accessible complaints body be
concrete proposals to work out herein. (V)
26. Democratization support financially. Green calls for the recruitment and promotion of young people whose
parents no higher education followed is structurally embedded in the institution financing. We use
is objective and cross-institutional indicators that were developed for the funds from the
to properly distribute encouragement fund. (V)
235

27. That no longer be funded schools for teaching undocumented migrants, is
inhumane and counterproductive. We screw the measures taken by the Flemish government back. (V)
28. Asylum seekers and refugees coming to Belgium with qualifications and competences they have in their country
acquired. Green wants the skills, work experience and qualifications of asylum seekers, refugees and
other newcomers in the existing training and education to be better exploited. Can so
training paths are shortened and adapted to the needs of the student. Also the
enrollment conditions for adult education and adult basic education for undocumented or
people are relaxed in the asylum procedure. (F, V, B)

EQUIVALENT EMPLOYMENT RATES
The unemployment rates for non-EU citizens shockingly high. The policy focuses on the positive boost
diversity, but the results show that this is not sufficient. Discrimination in Belgium plays a greater role than in the
neighboring countries. Green will not allow more opportunities lie to unequal treatment of ethnic minorities
actual address. We also refer to the chapter work, but given the urgency proportional
achieving employment, we formulate a number of specific proposals here.
29. What does not cost much, is conviction and commitment. Green advocates a pact between government and Diversity
social partners. Unions and managers take diversity policy effectively on board as a major
objective to realize. People in top positions play an important role in all of their employees
convinced of the added value of a diversity policy. (F, V, B)
30. If we want the goals of Pact in 2020 to a proportional employment rate for people with a
migration background catch, then the growth path should be doubled. We concretize the agreements in
new, ambitious sectoral targets. (V)
31. Proportional employment is only possible through a better representation of ethnic
Minorities in all employment measures, training, arming and career tools.
This requires concrete targets, constant monitoring and adjustment of the policy. When the target group policy and
employment measures as the Individual Vocational Training (IBO) or internships is the
under-representation of ethnic minorities is unacceptable. (V, B)
32. The resources of the policy for Proportional Labour (EAD) will be reallocated to where they
originally were intended: to promote employment of 'ethnic minorities'. Is then
switched on effort to outcome financing. The government thus provides a fitting
control to determine the increased and permanent hiring and promotion of ethnic minorities. (V)
33. The government targets a diversity policy with compulsory for organizations and companies
receive subsidies. By 2020, 100% of public procurement within the Flemish administration
are sustainable. Social and diversity criteria is a catch-up operation required. Therefore, concrete
commitments set out in the management instruments (eg. management agreements) of the entities.
Clauses training and a mandatory action plan with fair employment targets are as
special execution condition applied standard in procurement of major works and services.
Social criteria are also possible in the award of public procurement so that a company
with a diverse workforce gets more points in the weighting. (F, V, B)
34. The Government supports companies in the implementation of reasonable accommodation in the workplace for the
recognized religions at work. If they constitute a disproportionate burden for the employer are
negotiated an added value adjustments for successful labor market integration of minority groups.
(F, V, B)
35. Governments are leaders in terms of diversity (F, V, B)
The Flemish government will set an example regarding employment of disadvantaged groups which, with
an updated target of 10% of staff from ethnic minorities which
anchored to management objectives and the management of Jobpunt Flanders.
Green is against a ban on the wearing of religious signs in schools and at public
control.
Through the system of socio-economic monitoring, there is an accurate picture of the share
employees, job applicants, trainees and working students with a migration background in the
staffing of the government.
Governments set for itself and for its entities targets for internships, runways,
workplace learning, temporary and replacement contracts, social and other employment measures
work experience opportunities for people with a migration background.
The selection panels for the recruitment of government employees are diverse formulated to stereotype
To avoid ideas in the selection (so-called. statistical discrimination). The existing expert database
236

for this is enhanced with data from experts in various fields with a
migration background.
Non-discrimination and diversity clauses in the cooperation agreements
personnel of governmental and private employment agencies that carry out selection tasks.
36. VDAB and Actiris make the employment of ethnic minorities a priority (V, B)
On the qualification of new and established immigrants is being addressed through customized career guidance.
VDAB and the organizations with which VDAB concludes a tender, work on intercultural competences
and proportional participation in their labor mediators.
In the new management agreement of the VDAB is catching up again to provide
jobseekers from ethnic minorities. In practice, this means that the
overrepresentation of ethnic minorities in education and employment pathways
is reinstated. The goal is refined by risk group. And extended to the example
Individual Vocational training and training vouchers.
The number of action consultants at Gumtree deployed for foreigners on the labor market
very poor. In order to cater to the demand of their number must be doubled.
37. Local business houses give ethnic entrepreneurship a boost. The current measures
subsidy channels and financing channels for SMEs are not sufficiently known and also very complex. The
more entrepreneurs with foreign roots. Entrepreneurship is, however, an important strategy for social and
to facilitate economic integration. (V, B)
The entrepreneurs houses adopt a tailored approach and an inclusive approach with special attention
to stimulating and supporting ethnic entrepreneurship. This can be adjusted by
language, by hiring consultants with foreign roots, and through enhanced cooperation with
business organizations, Gumtree and Syntra projects have already started in the past.
The Flemish government facilitates the equalization of diplomas and valorizes acquired elsewhere
Learning (APL) to facilitate access to entrepreneurship.
Finally, we provide incentives to entrepreneurs with foreign roots voice to governments
and to strengthen the public forum.
38. Guidance for employers to fill long vacancies. Green wants companies with long
vacancies better support in filling these positions. Where necessary, the need to
recruitment threshold is lower and / or should be intensively monitored candidates during a training
(See part 'work' for a more concrete elaboration of this proposal). This approach should in the short term
groups working to help who is now the most about being overlooked in recruitment and selection. In
especially for the employment of ethnic minorities should mean a support. (F, V, B)

DUTCH ENCOURAGEMENT FROM RECOGNITION OF MULTILINGUALISM
Because the knowledge of Dutch is socially necessary, we want everyone to encourage and support a
sufficient knowledge to develop Dutch. Of citizens expect that they have a functional knowledge of the
Dutch have, does not mean that they can because of an insufficient knowledge of Dutch
be excluded from public resources. As well as the importance of the Dutch language does not mean that we other
languages ​​to banish from society and policy. The more Flanders a super-diverse society, how
the greater the need to expand Dutch as a lingua franca and the greater the opportunity for our
multilingualism to create a unique asset.

Dutch as a second language
39. When a government is serious with its policies, especially if the results commitments demands
citizens, then it must then turn towards the necessary resources. This means that apart from a possible
rescheduling also means the need for a budget increase. (V)
40. The Flemish Government's efforts obligation for immigrants changed to achieve NT2 level to A1
a result commitment to achieve A2 level. This means that integration candidates at the end of their trajectory
must pass an exam to obtain their certificate. Green is against it. On the contrary we advocate
result commitment of the government towards any candidate civic out within three months
a process should start. (V)
41. The pressure on the adult basic education centers to respond to the capacity problems within the range
Dutch Second Language has become so large that the minimum conditions for quality
education can provide are no longer met. Adult basic education centers need more
resources for teachers, classrooms and administrative support. When a government
237

42.

43.

44.

45.

46.
47.

48.

49.

believes its policies, and especially if the results commitments demands of citizens, then there
put across the necessary resources. (V)
The method advocated by the current policy is not working. The current academic approach is demotivating and is
a lot of time lost. By (more) 'school learning' of the Dutch language, newcomers are much too
long put under a bell jar. After all, a course is not equal to the learning and use of
Dutch. (V, B)
We use the language didactic starting point of the CEFR (Common European Framework for Qualifications
language) that the language is central. Proficiency is functional and is dominated by
communication language in realistic situations. Practice and training opportunities - called implicit
language acquisition - are therefore crucial to language acquisition.
We focus on integrated programs. Therein language training is combined with a
vocational training or employment. That makes pathways to work less long. Instead of
long-term projects in a school context, Green argues for language coaching in the workplace. This
requires strong awareness of employers and developing expertise in this field.
Language courses are often separated from the environment. We make more room for informal
learning through socio-cultural participation. There are positive experiences with mother and father in projects
a limited number of schools where mums or dads bring their children and then himself
work on their language.
Today a language policy is conducted where often less educated citizens are excluded and
marginalized. In follow-up of the lines that are set out by the Flemish government, also taking more and
local governments more effective knowledge of Dutch as a condition to access certain
social rights, such as the awarding of the living wage, municipal nursery, sale of municipal
lots, service, and so on. Green principle draws the line that knowledge of Dutch as never
priority or exclusion criterion can be applied. An obligation can. (F, V, B)
Also in the work careers of CPAS clients quickly get the chance to start on the shop floor
Combined with sufficient support to facilitate language development. Green also suggests
thematic pilot projects to start up (eg, ironing workshops, maintenance crews, ...) with homogeneous
foreign language groups in the workplace where only a portion in Dutch is spoken. Here
are opportunities for PWC customers faster integration or language course work and training
combine. (V, B)
Green advocates that governments can decide on an appropriate screening or a candidate for a
function without a diploma requirements of the knowledge required for the available function. A tailored language test
Add to let flow into the most vulnerable groups and to offer the opportunity to put their knowledge of Dutch
to improve. (F, V, B)
People who have been well trained but do not speak Dutch, will have the opportunity to use a digital road
part of going through the process.
When notifying prospective students more interpreters. There will also be a closing
financing arrangement for supply social interpreting and translation, while guaranteeing a sufficient supply
offer which will cost not recovered from the end-user. Especially for the care and
This welfare is a top priority. (V)
The increased importance of certification aligns group of unskilled, no or weak literate
students from further participation in society. Even though last NT2 courses for almost half
these students one year to 2.5 years, the expected level is not achieved. On the one hand there is need for appropriate
follow-up programs. On the other hand these students should be possible to exempt other activities
can take. (F, V, B)
A significant proportion of the foreign-language learners NT2 wear a multidimensional problem with it
with, such as problems in terms of learning, poverty, trauma, housing, work, health and well
psychosocial care. We improve cooperation with a wider range of services. (F, V, B)

EDUCATION
50. The sensitivity for multilingualism by the Flemish government remains negative, and if not competence
valorized. Green sees a very important role for education. The ambition of Green's
multilingualism as a goal. Each student has a backpack, foreign language students today
asked to leave a large proportion of the contents of their backpack at the school behind. A child with
speak Dutch, a foreign-child, a child who speaks dialect at home ... all children have the
given opportunities to be multilingual. (V)
238

51. Green is in favor of modern language teaching practice whereby early as kindergarten
playfully and customized methodologies, language sensitivity is imparted. There will be more emphasis
lie on the implicit learning of Dutch. This approach fits in with the community school where formal
education, non-formal education and informal learning are well matched. This, according to Green
essential to prepare children and youth for life in contemporary society. (V)
52. Schools are working on language awareness. The teacher - who does not need to be multilingual - uses
the languages ​​present in the classroom at singing songs, when counting and so on. Language Awareness makes
pupils vulnerable to a multitude of languages ​​and brings a positive attitude towards this cause languages.
(V)
53. Foreign-language learners who need it, get extra support for Dutch, with more emphasis
impose language in each box. At appropriate times these students are actively supported in learning
school of language and the processing of material. For foreign language students who need it, there is the
possibility after school hours to follow Dutch language stimulation activities. This playful activities
continue on the school so that the threshold in order to take part is low. (V)
54. We want more value the knowledge of other languages ​​in education. A flexible language policy regarding
the parents can also do wonders. The official language is always the starting point, and parents may
positive attitude are expected across that language. Conversely, a positive attitude can from school
bridges explain to foreign parents. (V)
55. To strengthen the support of foreign children at home and the involvement of the parents
To ensure school a community school must free evening classes Dutch and matching
offer support to the parents who do not speak the school language. This support is focused
specifically on life within the school and ensures that parents can focus on the active home
support their children. (V)
56. To support schools in the development of language policies and the legal barriers to road
works Green will present a decree to allow multilingual learning. Taking into account the
experiences at home and abroad Decree Multilingual Learning provides a number of essential
constraints such as the status of teachers and the need to embed these projects in a
language policy in schools. The decree creates a framework to allow various forms of language learning, each
other criteria and conditions. Experience has shown that combinations of models are equally possible. Provide
schools the responsibility to make the choice in consultation with the parents for a model
has been working according to the situation. (V)

MAKE ROOM FOR IDENTITY AND CULTURE
Cultural liberty is an important part of human freedom. People need to live as they want to live.
It is essential that the government convincingly argues for the freedom of people and communities to make their own
choose cultural forms and maintain. Even though the dominant group is sometimes difficult because in society
with it. Green is an active advocate of pluralistic society and sees a number of concrete levers for
government to give shape to it.
57. There is a need for a dialogue of cultures in order to recover confidence in government. It is matter of themes
on to the agenda proposed by non-dominant groups. The constant
requires maintaining a dialogue with communities (structural consultation channels) and with individual citizens
(deliberative democracy). To make change possible citizens should be facilitated to
to interfere himself: to experiment with forms of co-management and participation. (F, V, B)
58. Supporting associations of ethnic minorities. While these associations
In recent years experienced a spectacular growth, their subsidies were reduced. If this
associations must fill all expectations and their functions, they should also be given the means
to make that true. (V, B)
59. Green also wants to work on a more colorful art field. An important part of the art field in
Flanders is white. There are (too) little intrinsic workings working from an intercultural context. There are
too few organizations realize an artistic program that is (partly) outside the western artistic
idiom is. The cultural values ​​and supports ethno-cultural diversity by criteria
update the regulations so that diversity is reflected in less mature manner and the 'Western'
cultural patterns confirms, but obviously part of our cultural patterns. (V, B)
60. Intercultural cultural field can also make it priority in art schools, the
part-time education and in social and cultural associations. (V, B)
61. The government supports initiatives that arise with the basic purpose of interculturalisation
neighborhoods and districts. It may involve initiatives that depart from a shared identity or a cultural
239

community. In addition, there are initiatives to focus on common areas, and bridges installed where
people meet. Therefore we leave the familiar frameworks behind us, and seek new
hybrid forms. (F, V, B)

MEDIA AND DIVERSITY
62. The Flemish government will again result commitments around ethnic and cultural diversity in its
management agreement with the VRT. This put increased targets fixed in terms of screen presence and
personnel, as well as its monitoring and re-anchor the stakeholder consultation. (V)
63. The Flemish media regulator plays, like for example Ofcom in the UK, a pioneer
on diversity and media literacy. Promotes and evaluates the commercial stations around the conduct of the VRM
a diversity policy and develop with them concrete objectives and instruments. (V)
64. The Flemish government is taking targeted actions for more and better ethnic and cultural diversity in the private
media. This may be from the annual aid to the written press, through the Fund for Audiovisual
or through a specific call for proposals. Also, new media initiatives, for example of ethnic
minorities, are eligible. (V)
65. The Flemish government makes a deal with the regional television, which they are required
to use part of the time allowed for intercultural television from the region or city. This, coupled with the
subsidizing the regional stations. This cross-cultural television is made substantially in
collaboration with people from the ethnic-cultural groups themselves, for example through associations or
Primary. (V)

240

GENDER
VISION
The inequality between men and women, are almost non-existent in the legal field, in
The facts are still alive. Heated discussions about quotas on boards of directors, sometimes
Impossible work-life balance, sexual violence and its approach, harassment
work or on the street, to prove that an active gender policy is vital. Green wants
pioneer continue to achieve a change in attitude to gender and political
dossiers higher on the political agenda.

After decades of women's struggle and -emancipatie, it is usually still the woman in the
Most family carers assumes. A combination of tradition, education,
prejudices and power relations, makes it still is not obvious that
the man responsible for the family and education. Green will work towards raising awareness and
additional legislative measures to the financial independence of women
improve, to counter gender stereotyping and to have a balanced combination model
for realizing women and men.

PROPOSALS
MEASURES FOR A BALANCED AND HIGH QUALITY COMBINATION MODEL
1.

2.

3.

4.

5.

6.

7.

241

Strengthen leave for new parents. We make work-life easier. The
paternity leave for employees we expand from ten to fifteen obliged to take days. We
encouraging more men to take parental leave. When two partners or ex-partners in coouderschap each receive parental leave of four months, they get together for three additional months. A
Single parent without co-parenting gets an additional parental leave of seven months. For each
child comes for every month of parental leave to be a benefit to the current level. (F)
Time credit strengthens the autonomy time employees. Green wants the autonomy time of all employees
increase. The creation of a time fund is an instrument to achieve this. The fund gives everyone time
right to step in the course of his or her life and career temporarily out of the labor market and are
devote to other activities, according to his / her priorities at that time (see chapter development work).
(F)
A strengthening of care. People need to pave over the working life raft time for the
care for people in their surroundings and for the education of children. Strengthening systems
therefore care is a priority. Instead of a fragmented regime (thematic leave, time credit)
comes one easily accessible care system with two branches: one branch "nurture and care for children" and
a branch "care for the sick and badly in need of care." (F)
Our company invests too little in children. We can break the roles if we invest
in children, in their schools, and in the people who raise them. We provide more care for children in the
first life. Child care in the community school is complementary to existing (in) formal initiatives and is
affordable so that every child has access to quality child care. Particularly in disadvantaged and child-rich
urban neighborhoods, there is a need for a targeted investment (see Section Family Policy and Education). (V,
B)
Choice to create extra holidays with Christmas bonus. Employees should be allowed
for the year-end bonus into extra holidays. In this way, employees at the end
of the leave year to come up short in a flexible way to fill their free time in an easy way.
For employers, this is a free operation. (F)
Telecommuting makes the employee in charge of location and time use. The government is the new work

support sites by providing telecommuting and coworking centers, the opportunity to explore how
Telework can be stimulated fiscally, to include telework as an important alternative in the
mobility policy and the new work to promote maximum for civil servants. The conditions
for the organization of teleworking create subject of social dialogue. (V, B)
A family friendly activation of jobseekers. Green is in favor of a more
family-friendly notion of a "suitable job". Jobseekers are now in the name of the eighth.
9.
'activation' is forced to move their family situation and care needs aside. Green wants the specific
health and family situation of a job seeker an element in defining an appropriate
relates. (V, B)
Respect for the work ability of employees. The Flemish government, unions and employers agreed
in the Pact in 2020 to significantly improve the proportion of viable jobs by 2020. However, the share
employees that have a problem with the workability slightly decreased between 2004 and 2013. Green
endorses the recipe trade union ACV: "early detection of bottlenecks in the work capacity
employees is essential to keep the workability levels of education, or other jobaanpassingen
individual customization. " (V)
Green wants an integrated policy on gender mainstreaming. That is to say that it is
gender dimension is integrated into every aspect of each policy area. In recent years,
chose a slimmed-down form where each department had to choose two policy issues that
The object would be part of an integration of the gender dimension. Green advocates
increased effort to integrate the gender dimension in all policy areas. (F, V, B)
INCOME POSITION OF ENHANCING WOMEN
10. Green wants to close the wage gap further driving by making careers of men and women more equal.
We do leave systems more accessible to men (see below), guarantee child care for every child
(see Chapter family policy and education) continue to monitor the gender-neutral job classifications,
discourage sex stereotypical study choices, and take away the glass ceiling (see below).
11. Our proposal to make all minimum payments over the European poverty line, we ask
special attention to the incomes of single-parent families. In practice, it often calls for women
who are struggling to make ends meet.
12. Individual wage negotiations are a major cause for the remaining wage discrimination between
men and women in the same job. That is why we argue for clear agreements on individual
wage negotiations and the results are openly discussed, both to workers in
employers and both women and men. (F, V, B)
13. The glass ceiling has to disappear everywhere. In places where the under-representation of women in
higher functions is blatant, such as the military, diplomacy, academia and the high judiciary,
we resolutely choose for gender quotas. This also applies to presidents, directors and managers of
(semi-) government institutions. Selection will be made more transparent and gender sensitive. At locations
where women already have access to higher positions, we opt for self-regulation. We ask
organizations to formulate concrete targets for better gender balance and to indicate how they
compliance will follow it. In a number of good practices in 'masculine' sectors show that targeted,
positive actions make a difference. (F, V, B)
14. In addition, we want to reform and strengthen the Service Maintenance claims (DAVO). Because partners
fixed alimony do not pay, especially women get into financial difficulties. Green wants a review
of the operation and reform and strengthen where necessary. We also want the income of
beneficiaries shall be erected on Alimony Advance. (F)
CARE STRUCTURAL revalue
Certain sectors and jobs that traditionally belong to the woman's domain, given the social and
economically still not the weight to convince men that they are important. If we want more in the balance
roles that men and women play, we must first and foremost concern structural revalue. Green wants to achieve this
through the development of a care guarantee.
15. All carers, including those who previously were not in the labor market, will be appointed the volunteer status.
This statute guarantees undertaken the construction of social rights for those everyday care, unemployment, pension,
disability, health care. Per person recognized helped more than one caregiver (part time)
be and the statute is also possible after moving to a retirement home. (F)
16. Who combines care with a job, gets right to care with corresponding allowances. The existing
fixed set of time rights to care evolves step by step in the direction of an insurance logic.
Within that logic, we give care according to the (proven) emergency presents itself. Those who want or need
caregiving, more time rights. This can be provided that an audit of the care time needed by a paramedical
team. The right to leave through death, we extend to one week. (F)
242 17. Caregivers get a care premium (V, B). For caregivers who take care and thus
have a family income below the poverty line, the health insurance contribution pays you the difference in the poverty line in.
(V, B) When caregivers in unemployment or a living wage with the activation process is temporarily suspended. (F)
18. We provide more psychosocial support for carers, particularly for those with
takes care of dementia. (V, B)
19. We will increase it to limited tax ceiling for the reimbursement of expenses for volunteers in the care sector. (F)
20. We extend respite care, both voluntary and professional. Respite care facilities which are
carers occasionally can leave the care to someone else. We turn babysitter volunteers and
give their coordination in the hands of the local service center (LDC). The Flemish and Brussels
government subsidize this form of care. (V, B)
WOMAN-FRIENDLY PENSION
For Green respects a good pension individual life choices and punishes atypical careers unfinished.
Especially for women this is still too often the case today, but also those who are self-employed, employee and / or
official had a mixed career. However his career switches, part-time and temporary stoppages very
normal in a modern, relaxed career. Moreover, for green paid work is not the only way to reach
contribute to and participate in society. Other types of activities such as care work and care we want
appreciate for retirement.
21. The basic pension is the measure of choice to reduce poverty among retired women, for
it compensates for intermittent or part-time careers. (F)
22. As soon as there is a guarantee of a dignified retirement above the poverty line for everyone is the
pension split the new standard. When one of the partners in a couple extra time for care
record, we redistribute the pension within the couple. For example, when one partner fulltime
works and the other half-time, they build both 3rd / 4th pension. Thus, we also guarantee that the
partner whose pension chooses to build the family and reserves in the event of a divorce. The
pension split applies to people who are married and for those who have a cohabitation contract
closed. Green ensures that the split never leads to two mini small pensions. (F)
23. Green does not want to divorce the partner's career slowed what care is being punished for an
choice that both partners have created together. We therefore anchor the pension split as legal
default option also when it comes to the supplementary pension within the second pillar. (F)
24. After the introduction of the basic pension and the pension split, derivative pension may like
family pension, the pension and survivor's divorce be phased out gradually. Thereby
Green does not touch the rights acquired. The transitional arrangement we provide a more proportional
reducing the pension for a survivor who accumulates with authorized work. (F)
25. A career year is each year that you are available for the care or labor market which includes periods of
paid work, involuntary unemployment, sickness or disability, runways, parental leave or work under
the status of caregiver. Years of supposedly unmotivated time credit we do not count as
career years. (F)
Unconventional IMAGING AND STIMULATE SEXISM FIGHTING
Stereotypes often limit the opportunities for women. By stereotyped images they earn less,
they flow less easily to senior positions, and they take a larger share of the household and care
itself. They stick sticky floors "and bump into the glass ceiling. Conversely, the 'caring man' is also not yet
social evidence which is still a lot of men feel inhibited to a care or parental leave
to take.
26. Green wants an active policy on representation of men and women. Education, media, government,
labor market and society more than putting up for gender equality through campaigns and good practices.
Initiatives such ZORRA, guarding the media regarding gender roles and gender images is
rebooted. Reprehensible practices denounced. The government is a public award
issued for unconventional advertising. In addition, campaigns are launched to the public
appreciation for increasing family responsibilities and to distribute them evenly between men and women. (F, V, B)
27. To strengthen the fight against sexism sensitizing the government to take more actions to a
cultural change possible. Companies, institutions and associations are supported to a
code to set up against sexism and harassment. The code deals with mechanisms that are generally or
specific to the organization. (F, V, B)
243 28. We develop an action plan aimed at raising awareness, education, training of professionals,
preventive interventions and treatment programs to combat sexism. The government obtains the
private sector, education and the media. Social media is a useful tool to specific audiences
reach. They allow us to share constructive messages and relevant experiences. (F, V, B)
29. It is performed on a regular basis research (progress) attitudes towards violence
measure against women and men. Campaigns focus on the obstacles that come to the surface. (F,
V, B)
APPROACH TO FAMILY VIOLENCE
30. We call for a rapid and effective implementation of the national action plan to combat
domestic violence with measures and actions at various levels. The plan is a need for
coherent vision of the whole. It is attention to abuse of the elderly (be) action. When addressing forms
of violence in which the cultural context plays a role, the migrant organizations are involved. (F, V, B)
31. The prevention of violence in relationships is through targeted interventions by aid workers. GPs,
teachers, employees of Child & Family, ... are given thorough training signals
partner violence and to recognize other forms of domestic violence and to give them follow-up. (V, B)
32. Police are working on a more gender friendly image and inspectors are better trained to order
dealing with family violence. (F)
33. We provide structural funding "Hotlines Abuse, Violence and Child Abuse". The
Helpline 1712 24 can be reached at 24. (V, B)
34. Belgium will implement the Convention of the Council of Europe on preventing and combating violence
against women and domestic violence. A doubling of the number of places needed for
women and children. There is also at least one house for men. We make the shelters better
accessible, we revise their funding so that whoever invokes a refuge only have the
accommodation have to pay and there is free child care for vulnerable groups. (F, V, B)
35. Offender Supervision is important to avoid the violence starts again (with a new partner).
This requires a structural expansion of offender therapy and systematic monitoring of offenders
violence. (V, B)
36. Female genital mutilation is illegal in Belgium, but the practice remains a source of great concern. It is a
serious form of violence against women and girls, with severe health consequences. We offer
support to associations at the community level to practice prevention and awareness. They perform
very important work. We call for an expansion of the multidisciplinary teams that circumcised women
treat. There is also more support for health workers who may come into contact with
circumcised women and girls who are at risk of becoming circumcised. (F, V, B)
244 gays
VISION
Belgium is a model country when it comes to equal rights for LGBT people.
Green played in the past an important role in the legal position of
gay marriage, adoption by same-sex couples and non-discrimination of homosexuals
and gender-variant people. The next term we continue the struggle
equality continues.
Even Belgium appears occasionally a paradise for homosexuals, thanks to a series of regulatory
realizations remain ingrained prejudices the lives of LGBT people
make difficult in all sectors of social life. We need measures at
all components of interventions life, from birth to death. Child & Family to
the nursing home. We must educate our children in a different way.
Men and women are equal, gay people and heterosexuals are equal.
Stereotypical gender patterns and the prevailing heteronormativity underlie
discrimination and violence. The fight against sexism and discrimination on grounds of
sexual orientation or gender, including transgender persons in particular, the
victims require extra efforts.
In many countries, homosexuality is still punishable. In some countries, the
situation in the short time drastically deteriorate. The total lack of social
recognition makes it particularly difficult for LGBT people. Green will provide national and international
continue to put pressure on hateful regimes.
PROPOSALS
ACTIONS FOR MORE SOCIAL RECOGNITION
1.
2.
3.
245
Green wants a strong diversity policy to ensure that all people can fully and equally worthy
participate in social life. Within an integrated federal, Flemish and Brussels
equal opportunity and diversity remains a need for a specific policy regarding gays and
transgenders. (F, V, B)
Dé gay does not exist, any more than the heterosexual. The policy takes account of the diversity within the group
of LGBT people. Green wants in the various policy specifically for the eye
particularly vulnerable groups:
LGBT people with disabilities as a group very invisible. The Flemish and Brussels
Governments take initiatives to increase the visibility of this group. (V, B)
Older LGBT people have specific needs that require customized solutions. We take
initiatives that strengthen the social networks of older LGBT people. The care and
homes are sensitized so that caregivers become more aware of the needs of
this target group. (V, B)
In Belgium, many LGBT people have a different ethnic background. In many non-Western cultures
homosexuality is taboo and it is still considered a sin or illness and, as a
Western phenomenon or simply as something that does not exist and which can not be spoken. There is a need
of space that gives them confidence and care, in organizations for immigrant LGBT people, as in the
LGBT world, and beyond. In addition, there is a need to correct imaging. This can be done by having
role models and by giving voice to organizations of ethnic minorities. The media play
a prominent role in the imaging: both immigrant LGBT people as perpetrators of homophobic violence, which
have foreign roots. (V, B) 4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
Brussels is recently joined the 'Rainbow Cities Network. Through this network, we continue to learn and we carry
a strong LGTB policies. The Flemish government stimulates the central cities to share expertise with each other.
(V, B)
The school networks and school communities of all networks and at all levels of education, the
task is to create a culture of openness and a safe environment around the LGBT or transgender are
students and teachers. We will take further initiatives to train teachers and principals to order
go with homosexuality and make the subject for discussion at school. Also serves the higher education
there to pay attention to. (V, B)
Bisexuality has in our society even with a relative invisibility and specific
prejudices, both inside and outside of the LGBT community. Therefore LGBT advocacy
supported and encouraged to pay attention to their specific needs (eg in the areas of
support in their existing relationship and family), and the overall diversity within the gay community. It is particularly taken to ensure that bi-youth connection can be found in organizations
meet their needs and development.
National and provincial organizations of LGBT people - for youth and adults
- Be structurally supported to ensure the interests of their target audience. (V, B)
Transgender people often have problems at work. They are bullied or self
layoffs, which is totally illegal. We encourage companies and organizations in their
diversity policy to pay attention to the position of transgenders. (F, V, B)
VIOLENCE AGAINST GAY AND TRANSGENDER PREVENT AND SUE
9.
Green is working towards a rapid implementation of the Action Plan Interfederal Against Homophobia and Transphobia. (F, V,
B)
10. In society may be no place for violence against homosexuals or transsexuals. We fight verbally and
physical violence through awareness campaigns aimed at reducing the prejudices and through attention
for diversity. Campaigns such as "Report Violence 'deserve imitation and play an important role in gay and
transphobic violence to counter. (V, B)
11. Police are sensitized and trained to better cope with physical and verbal violence
towards gays. The training organized in Brussels for police
about homophobia are resumed and extended to the other regions. During the training, learning
police deal with registering victims of homo- and transphobic violence and the correct and
treating homophobic complaints. In these programs, attention is also paid to transgender people. (F, V, B)
12. Transphobia is reflected in discriminatory behavior against transgender and transsexuality. Just as
applies for homophobia, transphobia is a special category that can check the police when someone
declaration is doing violence or another case of aggression with transphobia as a motive. (F)
13. Repressive policies can bring about a change in mentality, provided that homophobic violence too
priori tit gets to justice. Penalties are therefore essential. In addition to the existing range, we advocate
for alternative sanctions which are much more effective. Offenders will be turned into an organization fighting
for equal rights, or in an institution that works with victims. (F, V, B)
A DIRECTED HEALTH
14. There is a need for a full and integrated health and welfare for gays and
transgenders. Everyone has the right to support his / her sexual health, which takes into
with lifestyle, identity, sexual orientation or HIV status. (F, V, B)
15. The fight against HIV and AIDS among gay men is urgent. Research suggests that one in 20 Belgian gay men
is infected with the HIV virus and that one in six infected men are HIV status do not know. Green will all
levels of government to work for the realization and implementation of the national HIV plan 2014-2019. (F, V, B)
16. The lifetime exclusion to give blood of men who had sex with other men is excessive.
Green advocates temporary exclusion, which is in line with the insights from the medical world. This exception
does not apply to stem cell donation, or the giving of platelets. (F)
17. Attention is needed to the specific problems of lesbians in the field of sexual health and
welfare. Lesbians have include an increased risk of breast and cervical cancer. We take actions to
reminding them of the importance of gynecological examination. (F, V, B)
246 18. We see the implementation of the suicide prevention policy in which gays and explicit
target recognition. Extra attention is given to young lesbians and bimeisjes and to
transgender people, who are at higher risk of developing depressive thoughts. (V, B)
19. The psychological and medical support for transgenders to expansion. By using the term
"gender identity disorder" be deleted gender variant identity is recognized as a human variation in
rather than as a disorder. Medical treatments such as hormone therapy or surgery, to be
further supported and made more accessible. Surgical procedures are as reconstructive procedures
recognized and included in the reimbursement system of social security. (F)
INTERNATIONAL FIGHT GOES BY
20. At European level can much progress can be made. Green supports the European Roadmap against homophobia
and discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity. So we uphold include the
European Directive on discrimination that sexual orientation and gender identity or expression also in
other international agreements are explicitly included. We do everything to these framework directive
the agenda and to exert pressure to get voted in this Directive. (E)
21. Belgium is the equal treatment of gays and gender-variant people in negotiations and
diplomatic contacts with countries where homosexuality is criminalized or where LGBT and gender variant
people are still persecuted. (F)
22. Green also wants development pays special attention to the funding of
programs in the south in terms of sex education, including the building of tolerance
towards LGBT people, access to information and effective contraception. (F)
23. All text, treaties or international standards which prohibit discrimination, sexual orientation and should
gender identity or expression explicitly mention it as an impermissible ground for discrimination. (E, F)
24. Green wants the procedure for recognition of political refugees for people based on their
orientation or gender identity or expression asylum requests, unambiguous and correct. (F)
25. Gays and gender variant individuals should free itself from state to state can fail without loss of
rights. (E, F)
26. The various legislations i.v.m. with family law for LGBT and gender variant individuals (such as
adoption, registered partnership, opening up marriage, PACS, Leben Partnerschaft, ...) are
recognized in all countries of the European Union and the Council of Europe, including in the framework of the free
movement of persons. (E, F)
27. A change in gender-entry is recognized in all countries. After adjusting
gender entry can be assigned for example a completely new birth certificate which nowhere yet
reports the birth gender. (E, F)
LEGAL RECOGNITION OF gays
28. The Yogyakartaprincipes describe the principles related sexual orientation and gender identity to which the
laws of all states would have to meet. Europe, Belgium, Flanders and Brussels have
endorsed and Green will strove hard to implement actively and carry out. (F, V, B)
29. The anti-discrimination legislation and policies for LGBT and gender variant people is strengthened.
Interfederal the Centre for Equal Opportunities and Opposition to Racism and the Institute for the Equality
Women and men have sufficient resources to monitor anti-discrimination legislation.
The principle of a counter unit is implemented as consistently as possible to the people as possible
to protect. Following legislative changes are urgently needed. The criminal provisions of the
anti-discrimination, anti-racism law and genderwet should be equalized. Similarly, Article 150 of the
Constitution should be revised so that not only press offenses motivated by racism or xenophobia,
but also press offenses motivated by discrimination by the criminal court assessable
be. (F, V, B)
30. The anti-discrimination law should gender identity and gender expression included as grounds for discrimination
be. Currently only transsexual people who have sex reassignment surgery
undergo, remain protected from discrimination and gender variant people not such surgery
have undergone, unprotected. (F)
31. Green believes everyone has the right to change the details of their gender without it
medical, physical or other requirements linked to, or a third party as it is necessary to judge. A
statement is sufficient for honor. In adapting the mention of gender identity is also a third option
247 32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
248
be checked. After the adjustment of the gender mention must also be made whether this can
be made in other documents, such as diplomas. (F)
Green advocates social parenthood. And family compositions are very diverse: in addition to classic
family as a married heterosexual couple, our society has many family units such as
single parents, same-sex couples, newly composed families ... The current legislation
however, does not guarantee the rights and responsibilities of all persons involved in the various forms in which family
children are raised. It must be possible to assign a social status with rights and
obligations between a child and a person who is involved in his upbringing. It is therefore a legal framework
come for the social old, this is a person who plays an important role alongside the legal parents in the
education of the child who can prove a special emotional bond with the child, such as the partner of
one of the legal parent, a close relative, a known donor. (F)

The legislation for married and unmarried co-mothers is adjusted. At this time should
co-mothers adopt their child to have to get along a legal bond. To this end, a procedure must
followed by the related costs. This entails for the co-mother, the biological mother and the
child a temporary (at least half a year) legal uncertainty with it. Existing legislation must
consequently be adjusted so that: (1) a married co-mother automatically becomes the second legal parent
the child born during marriage and (2) the unmarried co-mother to the child in the civil
state can recognize, either during pregnancy or after the birth as the father can already. This is a
Simple, accurate and secure way to the child's right to two full legal parents
guarantee. Mutatis mutandis, the same applies to men. Meevaders also be recognized. (F)
The procedure for the marriage of a Belgian with a foreign partner should be adjusted.
Currently, the foreign partner for this necessary documents from the country of origin. If the person
in question is gay, can cause problems and the authorities may even refuse to print documents
supply. (F)
The Flemish government is committed to international adoption by gays and gender-variant people as possible
make. LGBT couples is provisionally virtually impossible to adopt a child from abroad,
since the countries of origin with which the Flemish Authority shall cooperate for Adoption (Child and Family), no
LGBT and gender variant prospective parents accept. We make efforts to cooperation
go with origin countries that permit it possible (to be). The Minister of Health shall ensure that through
regulations no doors are closed to international adoption by gays and gender-variant people.
The minister in fact requires equal opportunities for gay couples to be prospective adoptive parent guarantee.
Also gender identity should not constitute an obstacle to adoption procedures. Has a gender variant adoptive parent
also right to privacy: a change of gender should mention this adjustment under any circumstances
mention may be made, unless the adoptive parent explicitly given prior consent. (F, V, B)
Now inheritance tax on the family home for the surviving spouse or partner be abolished,
remain cohabitants who used the tontine clause or the increase in the lurch. They pay
after all, still recording rights. Many gays and lesbians in the past made use of the tontine or
stipulation of growth, because to them long golden highest rates succession. The measure is only
as well as complete the registration rights to the family home following a tontine clause or accretion
be abolished for the surviving samenwoner. When it between cohabiting partners to
break comes by right it should be possible to delete the clause tontine or accretion
(so that the former partners are not required to wait until the death of one of them on the
home to have available). Inheritance tax on legacies to charities should be abolished (or lowered)
be. (F)

A REALISTIC AND HUMAN AND ASYLUM POLICY
MIGRATION
VISION
The
Belgian
society
is
the
past
decades
evolved
to
a
immigration society in which individuals continually arrive and depart. In a
globalized world, migration is an ongoing process. As a country and as a region we have
every interest to manage it as effectively as possible. To determine who we can and can not
admit, Green argues for clear rules and procedures based on the principles of
legal and human rights. In determining these rules interests must
the migrant, the host community and the country of origin be reconciled.

Rules for migration take place within an international framework of rights that we
must respect the land, including the right to protection or family formation. Our country
does not excel in there and walked several convictions for aspects of our asylum -
and detention policies. Where necessary, Green wants to change the rules.

Now the place shortages in care and delays in the asylum administrations less
acutely, Green proposes to improve the quality of the asylum procedure yet. For the
care we aspire to high standards. Of the reception process in which we make a whole
both the applicant is prepared for a possible return as an integration
our society. The place of voluntary return, we are strengthening and detention
We jump carefully in order.

The thresholds which create the rules for labor migration, ending up much
migrant workers in the illegal labor market. Green retains the current demand-driven and
controlled labor migration, but with flexible rules which reduce the thresholds
so that more migrant workers move towards the formal.

PROPOSALS
FAMILY REUNIFICATION
1.

The stricter rules on family reunification evoke some pressing humanitarian questions. The procedure is
long, expensive and adds the notion of 'family' very scary. Green emphasized that a fundamental right to family life
is right. Green requires a thorough evaluation of the impact of the stricter law on family reunification in

particularly as regards the criteria "decent housing" and "sufficient resources" in terms of
fundamental rights and humanitarian level. These are indeed criteria brokered favor less
well-off. (F)
2. We request an extension of the legal definition of 'family' in the law on family reunification. We want
create opportunity for reunification of family members of refugees who are in a serious
humanitarian situation. (F)
3. We also find that the right to family reunification for unaccompanied minor refugees must
be extended to the other members of the nuclear family. If siblings are currently not
account. We therefore believe that the categories are too limited and not the actual family situation
describe refugees. (F)
4. We ask for an extension of the right to family reunification, especially for family members of refugees
which are in a serious humanitarian situation. They must now apply for a humanitarian visa. The
granted this visa, however, is a grace measure and therefore not required by law. Green wants such
eradicate arbitrary practices and asks for a clear statutory provision which states that in exceptional
situations can the refugee appeal to regular family reunification statements. (F)
249

ASYLUM
HIGH-QUALITY ASYLUM PROCEDURE
Green advocates an asylum procedure which meets high quality standards. Quality means a procedure
processed within a reasonable timeframe is that efficient, simple and transparent and to ensure adequate
provide for proper protection of refugees. Recent developments raise questions. The government shortened
including through the procedure to draw up a list of safe countries. This brings the quality of the procedure in the
compromised. We are in favor of a procedure that puts the interests of the applicant.
5. Green wants to enroll the principle of shared burden of proof in the law. Now the law says that only the asylum seeker
evidence for the dossier should apply. Green wants the collaboration duty of the asylum authorities in the
Collection of elements needed to substantiate the dossier clearly inscribed in the law. The European
Qualification Directive should be fully and correctly transposed. This brings the Belgian legislation also
line with the binding decisions of the Court of Justice of the European Union. (F)
6. We want to give asylum seekers the chance to comment on the elements of the Commissioner General
implausible or contradictory eight. We ask the legal registration of the adversarial
for asylum seekers in the asylum procedure. And this before the decision was officially taken on the request.
To do this requires an amendment of the Royal Decree that the proceedings before the Commissioner General
capture. (F)
7. We want the Immigration Department, the Commissioner General for Refugees and
Stateless Persons and the Aliens Litigation Council in their research must look at risk
violation of article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights in effective expansion of a
rejected asylum seekers. That provision prohibits inhuman and degrading treatment. This ban means that
a state no people may return to another country where they are exposed to such
treatment. We want to enshrine this principle in law. (F)
8. The Commissioner General is allocated the necessary resources so that the verifiable elements
asylum cases can investigate, for example by performing linguistic analysis to the origin of asylum seekers
to establish. (F)
9. Green advocated the abolition of the accelerated procedure for asylum seekers from 'safe countries of origin'. At
This abridged procedure is to prove to the applicant that these countries are still unsafe. In contrast to
ordinary asylum applications, the onus is thus fully in the asylum seeker. Moreover, the procedure is
accelerated, asylum seekers still have less time to prepare. Thereby threatening people
with the right to protection, to run this wrong. (F)
10. The appeal we make less technical and formal and better adapted to the human story
of the asylum seekers. Asylum seekers and their lawyers should systematically be provided the opportunity to really
to be heard. (F)
11. In order to enable an action in full jurisdiction in all asylum cases, we eliminate the use of the
cancellation appeal in asylum cases off. Action for annulment is not an effective means of recourse. It's not
automatic suspensive effect and also the Aliens Litigation Council can address only
the contested decision at the time it was taken, and not the risk of degrading
treatment in the case of return. For this reason, our country has already been condemned by the European Court
of Human Rights. (F)
12. There will be an independent evaluation of the quality of the processing of asylum applications. Especially the
credibility investigation is being investigated. That credibility investigation seeks inconsistencies in
the story of the asylum seeker. This atmosphere of distrust undermines the quality of the procedure. The
results of the evaluation we make public. In other countries, like the United Kingdom, UNHCR, the
Refugee Organization of the UN, already conducted such an investigation. Belgium can draw from it inspiration. (F)
13. The Aliens Litigation Council is empowered itself asylum cases fully
investigations. When the judges feel that the Commissioner General of certain elements not
has researched, they can not independently conduct inquiries and must refer the matter back to the Commissioner General. This is not efficient. And it has the result that the same authority which the asylum seekers once before
dismissed the case again must deal with the content. The Board can not give binding instructions
the General Commission on what it should investigate. (F)
14. It is a misconception that applicants know their rights, let alone be familiar with the
Refugee Convention. Green therefore requires good guidance required during the procedure. This is now
not automatically organized from the filing of an asylum application. (F)
15. There are situations where not to organize a return is for reasons beyond the control of the relevant
person, for example if they have no papers and the embassy does not cooperate, or in cases of medical
250

16.

17.

18.

19.
20.

problems. For them there is now no good solution. Green wants for these 'nietrepatrieerbaren' provide a residence permit, which takes account of the duration and conditions account
specific situation. If necessary, a final adjustment should be considered. (F)
Some procedures are not transparent because there is no third person is permitted. Therefore asks
Green authorizations for the presence of a lawyer at all stages of the asylum procedure and in any
contact an asylum authority. (F)
We ask the obligation of the Commissioner General for Refugees and Stateless Persons to the
land information is relying upon to assess asylum applications, to make public. Belgium can
take an example from the Netherlands and the United Kingdom where clear reports are published
on the countries of origin. That asylum seekers have access to this information, it strengthens their position
across from the asylum authorities. (F)
Against a decision in the framework of the Dublin procedure, whereby the Immigration Department verifies
Belgium is responsible for examining the asylum application, is currently only an appeal for annulment
possible. However stipulates the European Convention on Human Rights which everyone, including
asylum seekers are entitled to an effective legal remedy. The appeal of annulment is transformed into a
real appeal process with an automatic suspensive effect. (F)
Chooses in transposing the revised EU directives Belgium for the highest standards of the
maintaining higher standards where the guidelines have lower permit (standstill obligation). (F)

Green wants to transfer asylum seekers to European countries only if it is clear that they are right there

will have on quality care and guidance. The rules are adjusted so that the Belgium
may refuse transfer if there is a risk that the asylum seeker is sent back by another country to
a country at risk of persecution or war. This means that the Immigration Department the risk
inhuman and degrading treatment in the country where the asylum seeker is sent back for each
transfer should investigate explicitly. (F)
21. Qualitative procedures also mean short, efficient and transparent procedures. However, the shortening
the procedure should not be an end in itself. Proper investigation into the claimed protection prevails. Green
advocates a flexible collection system with sufficient buffers that anticipates the possibility of longer
procedures by thorough research, profession, etc. (F)

QUALITY AND UNIFORMITY IN THE RECEPTION OF ASYLUM SEEKERS
From a humanitarian point of view, quality care is very important. But also for the success of the entire project, it is
part 'care is crucial. Green advocates a quality, integrated care pathway where both preparation
obtaining a possible residence as well as on the possible return is part of.
22. A renewed reception model that followed a short evaluation period by an integrated
We prefer receiving process. Which ensures the continuity of care and support for asylum seekers
at all times. It is true that the applicant initially given shelter in a collective
reception structure. After four months, he can then apply for the transfer to an individual reception structure.
If there is a definite negative response to the request for asylum, the applicant has still only entitled to accommodation
in a return position. There are working on a program for voluntary return. This fragmentation is, however,
detrimental to the well-being of the asylum seeker must always adjust to a new environment and new
supervisors. Therefore, we abolish this shelter in three phases. (F)
23. In an integrated system whereby return assistance and guidance in the residence procedure part
of the same process, every applicant receives a coach. Who accompanies him or her intensive two
Tracks: stay and return. Thus asylum seekers are better prepared for any possible outcome of the
procedure. (F)
24. Individual care in small-scale infrastructure has many advantages. It guarantees the best autonomy,
the independence and privacy of asylum seekers and also ensures better preservation of family life.
For single women, she creates a safe environment. We therefore ask for additional investments
individual shelters. (F)
25. Green asks the gradual transformation of the group into a semi collective reception compliant
the basic qualities of the individual reception, but where certain facilities are shared
offered. In those semi collective reception, the asylum seeker own privéwoonruimte enabling high
degree of autonomy is possible. Specific facilities such as a children's playroom and a first aid
are commonly offered. (F)
26. There is a need for a smooth and flexible care system that can adapt to the fluctuations in the
number of asylum applications. This can be through the creation of buffer areas. (F)
251

27. We want to give asylum seekers the right to work (see section on labor migration), or give the chance to
training to follow. This has an added value, both for an eventual transition to our labor market
at the re-integration into the labor market in the country of origin. Green requires an additional modified
of courses for asylum seekers. (F, V, B)
28. Asylum seekers have access to adult education. But that is always in Dutch. Thus, they can
after a time to subscribe to the offer. We develop customized short courses in a contact language
for asylum seekers and other people entitled to care, tailored to the average length of
asylum procedure and taking into account both a future stay in Belgium as a possible
return to their country of origin. (F, F)
29. Green wants to guarantee the right to accommodation during the asylum procedure, which we also
appeal period by the Aliens Litigation Council and the cassation procedure at the Council of State
count. To ensure this right, we change the law. (F)
30. For families with undocumented children is a sustainable solution from a humane
care and intensive support by specialized social workers to come to
either regularization or a return. (F)
31. deported minors who are in their final year, we give the opportunity to their
training finish. Young people who have a diploma, are indeed better equipped in their country
origin to build a future. In consultation with the communities, the federal government does a
arrangement under which conditions the residence of young people - and possibly their family - temporarily
can be extended. (F, V, B)
32. We cut the administrative and political connection between the Immigration Department (Immigration Department) and
Federal Service for reception of asylum seekers (Fedasil) by. Now there is even a shelter, the
return center in Holsbeek, managed by OE commissioned by Fedasil. (F)

DETENTION IN LINE WITH HUMAN RIGHTS
Detention is the Achilles heel of our asylum policy. Belgium ran in three years but less than five convictions because of the
European Court its detention policy. Green will not frivolously hop about with restraint and demands respect
human rights by bringing detention in line with the European Convention on Human Rights.
33. Green demands compliance with the Geneva Convention when holding applicants at the
border. According to the guidelines of UNHCR asylum seekers may be only for a very short period
detained, enough to register their identities, but no longer. Belgium, however, hold
asylum seekers stuck to the border in order to repatriate them immediately if they are negative
get asylum decision, which is a violation of the Geneva Convention. (F)
34. Moreover, the detention of failed asylum seekers and other undocumented migrants always right
only justified as a preparatory measure for a forced deportation at short
term. (F)
35. The Immigration Department closes almost all asylum seekers on the basis of the Dublin Regulation to
another European country to be sent. Green asks the obligation to strike a reasonable and
objective examination of the personal situation of the foreigner concerned shall, prior to the
confinement. (F)
36. Green requires an amendment to the Aliens Act by attaching consequences to the definition of
vulnerable persons. Because this is not happening, vulnerable people are still trapped on
Families with children after. Vulnerable people, such as families with children, the sick, the disabled and
Pregnant fold, may be confined in any case at a detention center. (F)
37. Green calls for a strengthening of the existing alternatives to detention, such as the
return houses for families with children. (F)
38. The practice of the return houses, which is good per se, is sometimes compromised by poor
its application. It happens that a parent is locked in order to prevent that the family 'disappears'.
This is traumatic for the children. Green wants this practice is being legally restricted. (F)
39. In the closed centers we request the presence of an independent medical service
regularly monitor their physical and mental health of the imprisoned aliens and detects vulnerabilities in time. Individuals who are vulnerable must be released and elsewhere fitting
supervised. (F)
40. The appeal against detention before the court in chambers is altered by up to in the legislation
take the Council Chamber proportionality and appropriateness of a detention measure
assesses. Judicial control is also automatically. (F)

252

41. The Federal Ombudsman pointed out in 2009 various bottlenecks in the detention centers, including
the lack of privacy and ineffective complaints procedure. Green wants to work
making the implementation of the recommendations of the Ombudsman. (F)

AN INCLUSIVE EUROPEAN ASYLUM
Migration does not stop at national borders. The European scale is needed to migration flows efficiently and
managing human. Green advocated the development of a European migration policy as stated in Article 79 of the
Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union.
Green wants a policy that the principle of solidarity and fair sharing of responsibility between the
Member States apply. This is only possible if the current Dublin regulation is revised. The Dublin Regulation is European
legislation that determines which country is responsible for examining the asylum application. This is usually the country
where the asylum seeker enters the EU. This increases the pressure on Member States with external increasing. Moreover
it also undermines the right to protection of the asylum seeker.
42. The Dublin III Regulation should be fundamentally revised, so that Member States are able
asylum applications to be treated irrespective of the country where the asylum seeker entered the European Union.
The current system is a serious restriction of the right to seek asylum, and is contrary to the
goal of shared responsibility between Member States. The Dublin Regulation puts pressure on
Member States at the external borders of the European Union and is one of many factors that lead to
unacceptable conditions for migrants in these countries. In a revision, the free choice of the
applicant, on an equitable distribution of asylum seekers amongst Member States and an equal, high quality
protection procedure in all Member States to the guiding principles. (E)
43. Belgium and EU parliamentarians to support the development of EU Support Office
Asylum Office (EASO) as an independent EU expertise that can play an important role in the
support Member States with weaker asylum systems. (F, E)
44. There will be a rapid operationalization of the new Early Warning Mechanism, provide the
Dublin Regulation, which the European Commission and EASO (EU Support Office
Asylum Affairs) monitors the asylum systems in different countries in order to rapidly any problems
detect and resolve. This will ensure harmonization and a more equal quality of reception and asylum systems of the Member States. (F, E)
45. The European Parliament regularly questions the Commission about the state of affairs of this monitor and
for any actions towards Member States in which problems were noted. beside
Parliament used its powers to conduct own investigation missions in the Member States.
(E)
46. ​​Frontex, an agency that monitors the EU's external borders against infiltration of
aliens, regularly violates fundamental human rights of migrants, such as the principle of
non-refoulement (eg. on the border between Greece and Turkey). Frontex operations also miss
transparency and democratic control by the Member States. If the EU fails the necessary guarantees
build humane accommodation of foreigners fleeing the country in fear for their safety and
preservation of life, Frontex is best to shut down. (E)

A REAL POLICY FOR RESETTLEMENT OF REFUGEES
Resettlement of refugees are refugees (long-term) recognized in camps locally and on a
organized, legal way transferred to another, mostly Western, countries. As regards resettlement continues
European Union far behind the United States. In 2012 there were in total 4644 refugees through resettlement to all
Member States together with the EU. The United States welcomed in the same year as many as 66 289 resettled. Green
considers that the Union and its Member States should show a little lacking in ambition.
The Belgian figures eyes lean. In 2009 Belgium invited 47 refugees, in 2011 followed by another 26 in 2012, 2013
and 2014 each further 100. Because Belgium has no structural resettlement program, these people
invited on an ad hoc decisions of the government.
47. There is in Belgium a structural resettlement program with long-term commitments and quotas
which are determined in advance for several years. Belgium may continue to make appeal to Europe
funds and also makes their own budgets freely. (F, E)
48. We wish that Belgium has the ambition to play a leading role within the EU so that Member States
2020 together resettle 20 000 refugees annually. (F, E)

253

LABOUR
Labour migration in our country accounts for about a fifth of the total migration. Green is in favor of our policy
labor migration reform. Due to the current policy is far too large proportion of workers (from
inside and outside the EU) into the gray or black market. We want to get this work into the regular economy and
In addition, where possible, to attract labor migrants mainly fill vacancies. Provides current policy
no answer to the increasing emigration to and within the EU.
Green proposes a tiered approach. The first step is to engage the private labor reserves which also
people with a migration background in there (for our proposals See sections Ethno-Cultural
Minorities and Labour). The second stage is to improve intra-EU labor mobility so that people from
Regions with a (temporarily) reduced demand for work is easier (temporarily) moved to regions
more demand. The third step is to facilitate non-EU workers, the so-called "third country nationals". Purpose
This approach has come to a better integration of labor migration policy and labor market with a view
the emergence of a good match between labor demand and labor supply.
49. intra-European mobility of labor to organize better, the rules for labor mobility are of
'long-term residents (a European statute that third-country nationals European residence entitlement on the basis of
work and stay relaxed for five years in a Member State). Third country nationals who are 6 months of continuous
legally reside and work in a Member State should be able to easily migrate to another Member State,
provided that they have or find work. Now that is only possible after five years. That's very rigid and contrary to the
Free movement. In addition, third-country nationals already proven that they are mobile. They will be easier
move to regions where there is work. (E)
50. To put this proposal into practice to work properly, it is necessary that there should be better coordination between
the different employment services of the Member States. The EURES network (EURES is
European employment agency) currently supply and demand on the European job market
coordinates, will be expanded and strengthened. The boost is already underway. With a view to the previous
proposal, it is important that third-country nationals legally residing in the Member States access
gain access to the system. (E)

51. Only when this European coordination is better, also called the Community
preference rule finally work. This rule states that there is only one employee at the European
labor must be found before an employer for a vacancy a
can attract third-country national. Due to lack of coordination, however, the application of this rule remains
currently an empty box, which puts a damper on a smooth intra-European mobility. (E)
52. Moreover, the currently fragmented EU approach on labor migration does not solve
the needs of the Union. It updates the current shortages in the labor market is not gone, and it makes the European
labor nor attractive. Ten years ago, the Commission had a good proposal for a
comprehensive and integrated approach at EU level. That we rekindle again and we adapt to
the changing events. The updated version of a harmonized system must contain
admission and residence of migrant controls with sufficient flexibility for the Member States so
it can implement policies tailored to their own needs. (E)
53. The regions Groen wants to maintain controlled and demand-driven approach. For
low-skilled workers (from outside the EU, since Europeans move freely), this means that the
labor market research for them continues to exist and that they are not linked to the shortage occupations,
given the existing own labor. To orient the low-skilled jobs to white, it is
that the important criteria to be revised. We advocate that the condition for the bilateral
employment agreement is abolished. This is, after all, based on the old policy of guest workers
yesteryear. (V, B)
54. For unskilled subject to a labor market research, scientists put it
a flexible procedure such as that already used in Brussels by Actiris. Green also wants to in this
Flanders apply. (V)
55. Middle-skilled third-country nationals, we want to connect as much as possible to fill vacancies. We want
to work with a dynamic, that is regularly updated, list of critical professions
opened for this group of workers. Again Green wants the precondition for bilateral
abolish employment agreement. In addition to the aforementioned argument, research indicates indeed out
that this condition raises an additional barrier and example files from the nurse
Belarus or the welder refused from Ukraine, while there's no good reason for it. (V, B)
56. We maintain the existing flexible procedure for highly skilled third country nationals. We do ask a
streamlining of the categories that are exempt from a work permit on the one hand and categories
are exempt from labor market research (but not a work permit) on the other. The law
254

labor migration incidentally contains more of these, historically evolved incongruities best
be eliminated. We also want to investigate whether proactive recruitment of highly skilled
third-country nationals is appropriate and whether it can without causing a brain drain. (V, B)
57. Who in Belgium is working with a work permit B does not have a right to employment. We set
the services of the employment open to all employees. This is social fraud and exploitation
against. (V, B)
58. Green proposes to reform the current permit B to sectoral labor cards. The logic
behind the B work is a labor market study called 'Community
preference 'to guarantee (where for each vacancy, priority is given to an EU citizen).
As a labor market survey shows that migrant workers are needed for a particular job will
which is also applicable for similar positions with other employers. The benefit for the employee is that
less dependent on one employer and then will be placed in a stronger position. The benefit to
the government is that it can send more, especially with a policy that is more focused on closing
structural labor shortages. (V, B)
59. Graduate (foreign) students we providing easier access to the labor market, such as
It is already the case for researchers. The rule now is that a student enjoys a right of residence as long as the
Studies last. The proposal is to extend the right of residence for 12 months after completion of the studies,
so that the student can find a suitable job that matches the diploma. That brings our rules are also in line
relevant European directive. (V)
60. We want industries who work with migrant workers, this may henceforth only if they have a
develop and adhere to ethical and legal code. Developed the World Health Organization (WHO)
such a code Proactive recruitment of health personnel. This code is a guide to some of the
Flemish care sector. The construction sector is actively working on self-regulation. The government must approach
oblige all sectors working with migrant workers, such as transport, or meat industry
fruit production. (V, B)
61. To ensure the guidance of these applicants Green requires a customized pathway so that these
group can find a job. Not only Gumtree and ACTIRIS herein bear responsibility, but also the
CPAS. The guidance is intended to run until a permanent job is found on level. (F, V, B)
62. Although the labor of undocumented migrants in laws cast, enforceability remains
problematic. We advocate the operationalization of a safe deposit box for clandestine
workers so that undocumented labor can assert their sojourn and poignant
abuses and exploitation can sue. The control of unacceptable working conditions and the
control are separated by stay. During those complaints we advocate for interrupting
the term of removal so that the employee can contribute to a documented
file. (V, B)
63. For a better overview and control of labor migration and to enable to our country, we carry the
The second part of LIMOSA out, this should be the Belgian cadastre of labor migration. The first part of
LIMOSA launched by NSSO (National Social Security), NISSE (National Institute for Social
Insurance of the Self) and CBSS (Crossroads Bank for Social Security), concerns the reporting obligation
Foreign employers and self-employed persons are required to report their activities in Belgium before.
The second part focuses on simplifying and centralizing the formalities foreign
Employers must comply in order to exercise activities in Belgium. (F)
64. Still in the context of 'good governance' Green advocates close cooperation between the regions
on labor migration, which can be explored in the context of the current Advisory Council for Economic
Migration. (V, B, F)
65. In addition to the much needed regional cooperation, the Flemish Advisory Council Economic Migration follows
(to be created) the developments regarding labor and gives them shape policy options. (V)

NATIONALITY
Green nationality is an important lever for integration and emancipation. Who Belgian nationality not
possession, hit harder to find a job. The law, however, the logic is all about and sees nationality acquisition as
culmination of a process of integration. Green insists on a clear procedure that the integration efforts in time
honors.
66. The naturalization procedure should be used only exceptionally and has no place in parliament.
We replace the parliamentary commission naturalization by an administrative court with
appeal. In addition to the honorary we provide a category Doloris Causa. Consequently both will
255

the athlete if the foreigner who has fled his country because he is fighting for human rights, can
be naturalized. (F)
67. Green defends it for the automatic granting (citizenship certificate), no additional
integration condition is imposed. Who 10 years legally in our country, one of the languages ​​mastered and the
wants to become Belgian, could be Belgian. The criterion of 'proof of participation in the life of his
welcoming community "which opens the door for arbitrariness is therefore deleted. (F)
68. Green wants the criterion of "economic participation" in the revised national statement. Migrants
ask for two (out of five) years prior to the nationality weathering having worked full-time, is
not logical. Study shows that they were the first victims of the economic crisis. In addition,
nationality is a factor to get to work. Because women who take more care duties in
private life and work part time from this criterion are the main victims. (F)

REGULARISATION
Green advocates a regularization policy based on clear, legally established criteria. By continuing to
stick to the discretion of a minister or secretary of state, the arbitrariness and remain the
continuing uncertainty.
In the context of medical regularization Green thinks that the sick should be helped. The clampdown on the
medical regularization runs out of control. The Immigration Office was recorded in early 2013 still on the fingers
criticized by the Council of State.
69. Green wants clear, legally established criteria for regularization. Our proposal is to following criteria
by law to register: for 3 years waiting for an asylum decision, inability to return, heavy
are disabled (after a work accident in an illegal employment), humanitarian
circumstances, social ties to Belgium and / or provide a social and economic contribution. There is a
independent regularization commission set up to rule on the applications for regularization. Every
request will be dealt with within six months. (F)
70. The Government shall ensure the proper application of the legislation on emergency medical assistance for
persons without legal residence. Access to medical care is a right and should not depend
be made of certain conditions, such as the willingness to return the person concerned. Persons without
migrants with serious illness should not be returned to their country of origin
if access to the necessary medical care that can not be insured.
71. Green calls for an evaluation of the application of the law on medical regularization and clear criteria.
(F)
72. Green wants the decision taken in June 2013 to the economic regularized in 2009
henceforth be excluded from social services, including emergency medical care is
reduced. These people are legally resident in the country and have contributed to our social
certainty, it is quite illogical that they are excluded from social services. (F)

UNACCOMPANIED MINORS
The return of people as "unaccompanied minors came within the country and in the meantime fully
are established - think Parwais Sangari and Navid Sharifi - to countries at war not consistent with human vision
where Green stands for. In Afghanistan there is war and chaos and these guys are birds for the cat. One problem is
the legal vacuum in which these people reside. Green moves as a solution to the Children's Pardon for.
73. Young people who are anchored here, can not simply return to countries at war, chaos or where they do not
have network and are on their own. Green introduced a bill for a Children's Pardon.
This bill seeks to protect a specific group of young people through the regularization of their stay. The
These were young people who arrived in our country when they were minors who anchored here locally and
who either have stayed here a number of years (five years when they arrived with their parents, four
years if they have arrived as an unaccompanied minor). (F)
74. The current reception of unaccompanied minors as residence procedure (depending on whether
the unaccompanied minors applied for asylum or not) is not always the answer to the real
needs of the minor. Green therefore wants shelter and stay procedure to be disconnected
and advocates care tailored to this group. (F)
75. The quality of care offered by guardians is very variable. Green proposes a clear
and to provide comprehensive employment framework for the crucial guidance of unaccompanied
minors by the guardians, more resources for education and support. (F)

256

STATELESS
Stateless persons are in a legal vacuum. This is very inhumane to the people involved. Green wants this
Tackling problem by creating a framework for this group.
76. The authority to recognize statelessness is shifted from the court of first instance
to the Commissioner General for Refugees and Stateless Persons. This will ensure more uniformity.
Each court is, in fact here in a different way to join. The procedure takes very long, often
more than a year. (F)
77. Candidate stateless persons given temporary residence during the procedure. (F)
78. The recognition as a stateless person is directly linked to residence. If the court's status
stateless anyone, this gives today no automatic right to legal residence in Belgium. The
stateless must then apply for regularization, without any guarantee of success. The uncertainty remains
ie drag on. (F)
79.

We advocate the accession of Belgium to the international 1961 Convention on the Reduction of
Statelessness. It stipulates that all countries work on the prevention and reduction of
statelessness. For example, by stateless persons residing on their territory, the nationality
grant. (F)

RETURN
Green advocates a policy that makes efforts for voluntary return through a guided route individually and with
support for reintegration. Forced return is a big stick that is needed only as a last resort.
Absconding Green will certainly discourage because it creates socially undesirable situations.
80. We procure the scale repatriation centers off. It is better to people from their familiar
To prepare reception structure for return. Now we see that, when the transfer of people of a
regular reception structure to return the places many people go into hiding. Perhaps for fear of what
awaits them and because they are torn from their familiar surroundings. We give so ordinary
reception structure responsibility around return assistance. (F)
81. We replace the current one-size-fits-all path through a return process tailored to the asylum seeker
with flexible terms. That will make the voluntary repatriation successful. (F)
82.

Green require a reduction of the number of places in the closed centers in favor of more

investment in the voluntary return. The budgets for voluntary repatriation to rise. (F)
83. Voluntary return we consider as a means to the sustainability of reintegration into the
homeland guarantee according to the skills of the migrant and local realities. Today is
focus too narrowly on the outflow of foreigners, not their future opportunities. Therefore asks Green
a shift in policy, based on an evaluation of the sustainability of reintegration after a
voluntary return. (F)
84. We shift the focus in the voluntary return programs for access to basic rights such as
housing, employment and health in the home country. Returnees already get more opportunities in Belgium
courses to follow in terms of their competencies. (F)
85. We demand the long-awaited publication of the Royal Decree that the framework for the voluntary
return policies create. (F)
86. During the forced return should human rights be protected. Green requires a
oversight authority for a human body which acts in complete independence as
Besides recommending the European Commission. (F)
87. Green requires clarification and transparency regarding the readmission agreements which are concluded with
countries to facilitate the forced return of their nationals. In return, the EU offers / Belgium which
countries all kinds of benefits. Readmission agreements are not published and their implementation is low
known. The agreements rarely contain guarantees for sustainable return or clauses on the need for
respect for human rights. Based on these agreements can people when they arrive at the border mostly Zaventem - be immediately returned. Whether the border inspection inquired these people
about their right to seek asylum remains unclear. Green Calls for evaluation of the effectiveness of
these agreements, both for our country and for the Union. (F, E)
88. Forced repatriation should never happen to a country or region where armed conflicts
fought. (F)

NULTOREANTIE against discrimination and racism
257

Racism is a fundamental problem in society. The answer to it must be unambiguously and decisively.
Racism therefore is an integral part of our migration policy.
89. There will be information campaigns for victims and witnesses of discrimination about their rights
and sensitize to do report this to the competent authorities. (F, V, B)
90. The proactive approach of discrimination is a top priority of all relevant inspection. She
are receiving specific powers and investigative tools to racism and discrimination
demonstrate or disprove. (F, V, B)
91. There will be a framework decree for the validity of specific investigative tools
discrimination. This makes it easier for inspection services, organizations and individuals
to demonstrate presumption of discrimination or disprove. (F, V, B)
92. In order to tackle discrimination, in addition to a sensitizing approach, a monitoring and
punitive approach. As in the Brussels Region, Flanders start with projects around the
practice tests. When practice tests get employers (fake) applicants on the floor and can the government
determine whether there is discrimination. They are useful to enter into dialogue with the employer, or may like
submit evidence in any subsequent legal proceedings. Companies here only be a score
first sensitized and warned a second time will follow inexorably sanctions.
93. All existing public and private hotlines where discrimination is reported (including those of the immobilization and
Interim sector, VDAB and Actiris, ombudsmen, trade unions, inspection, educational institutions and others) use
the notification and registration of the Metis interfederal center for equal opportunities and combating
discrimination and racism. (F, V, B)
94. The Flemish action plan to combat work-related discrimination (ABAD) is
revalued to a real policy. Thereby the fight against discrimination a priority
for the Inspection of Work and Social Economy, with an ambitious to get some specific checks annually.
(V)

CLIMATE-RELATED MIGRATION
Migration which is due to the climate change, takes place especially in emerging and developing countries. Green thinks
the North, as the main cause of climate change, so bad looking for solutions. It is clear that
migration is a part of the solution. This definitive resettlement of collective groups, occurs best with
respect for the people involved. We ask the international response to the current legal vacuum in which the
climate displaced persons are located.
95. The current legal instruments, which individuals must prove that they are individually and asylum
need of protection are not adjusted and also very difficult to adapt to climate displaced people.
We create so best new legal instruments for climate displaced people. Belgium takes herein
lead. Belgium is playing its role in European and international fora to schedule this with urgency and
to deal with. (F, E)
96. Belgium is developing programs for permanent resettlement of climate displaced persons and urges the
EU to to do the same, and according to the principle of equitable and balanced distribution of
charges. (F, E)
97. At international forums Belgium actively defend the principle of international support for local
measures. Because protection of climate displaced mainly in the countries of the victims
itself will happen, the international community has an important responsibility for governments,
support local communities and local organizations and NGOs. (F)
98. At international forums Belgium actively defends the principle of collective rights for local
populations. When climate displacement is by definition not individual persecution but
always for a complete group of people. It may therefore be villages, towns, regions or even
island states and therefore all countries. This is a guiding principle in designing the new,
international legal instruments. (F)
99. Green asks the Government to contribute actively to the launched by Switzerland and Norway
Nansen Initiative, which is several states have joined. The Government shall issue
report regularly to parliament. This initiative will seek answers to the urgent and complex
problems associated with the need to relocate as a result of the people
climate change and the increasing environmental risks. (F)
100.
The Belgian government is keen for that around the issue of climate-related migration and the
resettlement and adaptation strategy a special rapporteur of the UN Secretary-General
258

appointed. They will inform the parliament on measures and initiatives that they take on
climate-related migration. (F)

259

DEMOCRACY AND INTEGRITY POLICY
VISION
Democracy is a verb: our democracy is never finished, and should adapt to
changing conditions. The participation movement of the '70s led to the
establishment of numerous advisory boards, distribution of hearings, had ... In the 90s
everyone talking about the gap between politicians and citizens and the new political
culture. The rise of the new media, the public debate
past years fundamentally changed. Citizens are becoming increasingly assertive, and that's a
good thing.

At the same time we see some worrying trends. Existing participation form
sometimes seem not only to suffer from metal fatigue, they are also more and more often in demand
asked. There is too much democracy, and therefore stropt policy reads. Countries such as China,
where large projects in a short time can be decided, are the shining
example.

Green did not share that analysis. More democracy is for us just guarantee both a
better policy and more support. We have to think about how our democracy
can innovate constantly, give oxygen. Therefore we want to work on various
axes: give space for all forms of civic participation, both classical and more
innovative, strengthening representative democracy, and work on integrity
politics.

PROPOSALS
BROADENING DEMOCRACY AND RENEW
Democracy is more than every four, five or six years a bead colors. Democracy is an ongoing process. Therefore wants
Green enrich representative democracy with all sorts of innovative forms of involvement. Not in the place of,
but to complement and strengthen representative democracy. We aim is to take all dimensions of
participation ladder: inform, consult and advise, but also code sign and coproduction: it designs them
decide and enable it.
1. The basic condition for democracy is absolute openness and transparency. Green advocates
"Glasses democracy." Internet and social media to create a new kind of democracy possible 2.0. Via a
good digital environment gives citizens an easy, immediate, free and as directly as possible online
access to all government documents, including interim studies. The government is so
user-accessible as possible, so that citizens easily find their way to relevant information. Also through
non-digital way information must be easily accessible and of course remain. (E, F, V, B)
2. Participation is for Green a chance, not a burden. Green does not agree with the proposition that the policy stropt by
too much participation. Rather, who involves citizens in a good way, it will better and more
proposed projects are. Green is in favor of better procedures. More integration in permits
and planning, reduce administrative inconvenience and expense plan is a good thing. But these principles
may not lead to the erosion of public participation. On the contrary the aim should be to provide more for everyone
create greater certainty for government, for companies, but also for interested citizens and associations.
(E, F, V, B)
3. Consultation and participation are organized as early as possible in the decision making process. So
we avoid frustration for all involved: participation sham because the plans do not change
may be, or much delay because the stirrer in extremis must be reversed. (E, F, V, B)
4. The government is actively seeking methods to also difficult to reach target groups (children,
low-skilled workers, newcomers, ..) involved in participatory processes. (E, F, V, B)
5. Participation is not only a matter of individual citizens. The civil society is a vital part of
a healthy political system. It is necessary to convert aspirations of citizens on the political agenda
contributes to the development of solutions. Democracy as organized disagreement is also about
260

debates between politics and society. The society must be able to take in views freely,
even if they run counter to the policy. We therefore oppose the abolition of a large number
strategic advisory councils for Flanders. The government must take seriously recommendations, which include
means: clarify expectations and decision-making seriously
state reasons, timely advice (including in the concept), advice on strategic moments part
be part of the parliamentary debate, ...
The ideal is a responsible, critical and independent society. That midfield
public funding is received is more than evident, but transparency can be improved. The midfield
For example, it is legally obliged to publish its financial statements and also takes for spontaneous initiatives
transparency as www.ngo-openboek.be (E, F, V, B)
6. Green wants to make room for innovative democratic models. More specifically, we want more
space for forms of deliberative democracy: a group of citizens, preferably as representative as possible
composite, is based on consultation, debate and expert information an opinion on one or more
important social issues. Foreign examples show that citizens are perfectly capable
to come that way until sensible and nuanced decisions, even about complex or sensitive
issues such as ethical issues, institutional issues, ... (E, F, V, B)
7. In addition, Green wants to increase the involvement of citizens through both binding referenda as advisory
plebiscites. At present, the regulations leave all consultative referendums to local and
provincial level. The sixth state reform has also empowered the regions
consultative referendums to permit regional level. Such referenda and
plebiscites are not isolated events but are the culmination of a broad
public debate. Also forms of 'e-democracy' (use of new media), we want to give opportunities,
as an adjunct to more conventional instruments. (F, V, B)

REPRESENTATIVE DEMOCRACY STRENGTHENING
8. Election of a portion of federal MPs in a federal electoral district. At this time, be
Flemish politicians and parties only be judged by voters Flemish and French-speaking parties only by
French-speaking voters. The introduction of a federal constituency, we worked democratic deficit path:
federal top politicians will be judged by all voters. Federal politicians will be assessed on the
impact of their policies on the country. You can view a full-fledged federal debate on federal issues
get. (F)
9. Strong support for MPs. Parliamentary committees have a structural support
experts. The opposition will have the opportunity to carry out the Court's audits. (F, V, B)
10. Federal steps have been put in the direction of hearings by the House of new ministers. We
to strengthen and expand this system to all parliaments, modeled on the European
Parliament uses for Commissioners, prior to their appointment all ministers be heard and to
subject an individual mood. (F, V, B)
11. Programme Laws allowed to be used only for articles which are directly connected with the

budget, not as 'trash' laws. (F, V, B))
12. Green wants to expand voting rights for non-nationals and relax. We want the right to vote for non Belgians as it now exists for expanding the municipal elections at other levels.
We also want to simplify the current registration procedure in the municipal elections.
Today, non-Belgians to vote is at least three months before the
municipal register themselves on the electoral roll. We want to also record from 2018
possible until the day of the elections by the simple registration at the polling station. (F, V, B)
13. Extension of voting for Belgians abroad. Belgians can vote for abroad
the federal election. The procedure is also relaxed during this legislature. Green wants
Belgians abroad also give the right to vote in regional elections. (F)
14. Reduction of the age at which one may vote up to 16 years. We also want to strengthen
political education at school. (F, F)
15. Abolition of separate successor lists, making it far less transparent for citizens who
ends up in parliament. We therefore take the system on that municipal and
provincial elections is applied: there is only one list of candidates effectives. If there is a
Member must be followed, which is done by the candidate as not elected directly
was. (F, V, B)
16. encourage political diversity. Green advocates as possible proportional electoral system, with so
minimize direct and indirect electoral thresholds. So we do as much justice to the
261 diversity of the political landscape and also get new ideas and movements a chance. Concrete
we advocate, for instance:
- Greater electoral districts for provincial elections (the current small electoral districts ensure high
electoral thresholds, which also differ from province to province and region to region: in some
Placing a party must obtain more than 10% in order to qualify for a seat) (V)
- Replacement of the system by the system Imperiali D'Hondt for the calculation of the distribution of seats at
the municipal elections. Imperiali heavily penalizes smaller parties, which is nearly double
votes should get a seat than larger parties. Thus, the actual threshold is in many
municipalities almost 10%. (V, B)
17. No political power of the monarchy. Green advocates a ceremonial monarchy to
Scandinavian model, without political power for the king. In addition, it is no longer the king who the laws
signs, but the president of the Parliament. The king is no longer authorized to appoint
and dismiss ministers. That will be the full responsibility of the Parliament, as is already true for
the regional governments. (F)
INTEGRITY IN POLITICS
Together with the sixth state reform have taken many measures to integrity in politics
promote and increase transparency for citizens: ban on parliamentary elections in more than one list
while standing, introducing a code of conduct for federal parliamentarians, stricter rules
Redemption fees, ... Green wants to continue on the chosen path.
18. Political cumuls stronger action to curb, to prevent conflicts of interest: the accumulation of
a mandate as an MEP prohibit a local executive authority (mayor, alderman, Ocmw Chairman). The financial ceiling for authorized cumuls (now up to 150% of a parliamentary
salary), we want to lower to make stricter the rules. For cabinet members also we want
reduce accumulation. (F, V, B)
19. The accumulation of political mandates with mandates in the private sector we want stricter restricted
explain, including by prohibiting elected officials to act as auditor or to become a member
of the boards of directors or other governing bodies of public corporations or major companies like
Electrabel, KBC ... For ministers we want a "ontluizingsperiode" of 24 months, in which ex-ministers
no company mandate can include in the sector for which they were qualified as minister. (F, V, B)
20. An MEP who is a minister or state secretary, is monitored for the full term of office as
MP. The current system of temporary impediment makes it possible to prevent the successors
remain indebted to "their" minister - if they resign, they lose their mandate - and so weakens
the power of the parliament. (F, V, B)
21. A proper remuneration for MPs. The previous legislature were different
Parliaments important decisions on parliamentary allowances: no
Redemption fees for those who resigns reform of the parliamentary pension. This
reforms are implemented and supplemented (including by pruning in the over extra fees
for special functions by simply calculating the severance allowance on the normal parliamentary
salary and not the extra fees for special functions by the exit fee to
limit or revoke it when the ex-MP exercises another paid job or mandate.) (F, V, B)
22. As members of parliament and local executive officers are Cabinet members (and judges)
required to lay down a list of offices. (F, V, B)
23. The Court, in cooperation with the planning office calculates the budgetary, social and environmental impact
the various manifestos for election to the Federal Chamber and the regional and
community parliaments. (F, V, B)
24. Politics is not from an ivory tower. Contacts with civil society and with lobbies can be useful
and enriching, but it must be conducted in all transparency. Green argues that the introduction of a
"Footprint of the legislation." When the legislation is explicitly included a list of all persons
and organizations with which the draft was discussed in advance. In the European Parliament has been in existence
years of a transparency register for all lobbyists and there are plans to introduce such
"Legislative footprint". We also want the deontological codes of the various parliaments
clear rules around dealing with lobbying. (E, F, V, B)
262 CULTURE
VISION
We want to promote all forms of information and culture and affordable for
everybody.
Correct support / funding based on quality has
self-evident. Tax incentives may not take the place of support from the
community.
Offer a counterweight against the encroaching commercialization and
market forces in the culture sector, mainly driven by the European Union.
sided
The initiatives of artists, socio-cultural work, the amateur arts,
heritage conservation ... in short, organizations and individuals and the public for cultural use as
Based on the culture, and not the government's preferences or policy makers.
Cultural education and further promote cultural participation for all. With particular
attention to vulnerable groups.
Appreciate ethnic and cultural diversity and support by various criteria
regulations to update so that the diversity is reflected in adult manner and
less the 'Western' cultural patterns confirms, but obviously part of
our culture patterns.
Working towards a transition to a socially just sustainable society, through the
Developing a sustainable reflex at all levels of the artistic work,
heritage conservation, social-cultural work and the media.
PROPOSALS
CROSS-CULTURAL ASPECTS OF THE
Cultuurparticipatie
1.
Participation realize a large commitment of many instruments. The attainment of more people and an
qualitative experiences is so important to us that it belongs in all initiatives and decrees as red
thread. (V)
2. It is known that participation in culture has an emancipating effect and the self-esteem of people
increases. We want the existing instruments (projects, local networks poverty, Uitpas, the
Leisure Pass Paspartoe in Brussels, projects and cultural actions for persons with disabilities, etc.)
develop further. An art supply that is wider than the "Western canon", but consistent with the wealth
of existing cultural experiences, is crucial. (V)
3. Cultuurnet developed various instruments, the recent Uitpas in a pilot version. In the next
policy period Uitpas should be generalized. We also want to Cultuurnet more actions
action to stimulate the 'enthusiasm for culture and support for arts and culture
strengthen. (V)
263 4. Obviously, public broadcasting plays an important role for art and culture, both in our access to it
As with the deepening of the perception. This may be more powerful. Public broadcasting and the arts sector
should be able to find each other more in a partner role. (V)
ART, heritage and cultural education
Green believes in a targeted approach through education in collaboration with the (amateur) art sector, the
part-time art, the culture and heritage sector educational organizations. In addition, Green also wants attention
Arts & Culture continue to encourage in children and adolescents in leisure and in families. Children and young people
we see not only receivers' of art and culture, but also people who practice art and creating.
5. The place of the arts and cultural education in primary and secondary education should rise on the
policy agenda. Music, literature, theater etc. can not be seen merely as an aspect of the free
time and therefore earn a valuable role in compulsory education. Children and young people
can both passive (eg. as a spectator) and actively (self practicing art) involved
be. A broad cultural and artistic education contributes to the basic competences of each
individual. In secondary education, Cultural and Artistic Education must be registered in the
curriculum. (V)
6. The policy recommendations that appeared in a final report entitled "Shared Divided '. Cultural and
arts are essential and indispensable part of the training and development of children and
youngsters. They have not been implemented after five years. This is urgent. (V)
7. The maximum invoice has in recent years a decline in participation as a result. That is not
acceptable and therefore requires a limited adjustment of the regulatory environment that makes budget
cultural, within the amount of the maximum, is guaranteed. The Uitpas and Paspartoe
may grant additional benefits to pupils, students and teachers. (V)
INTERNATIONAL CULTURAL
8. We want this policy in the first leaves of the applicants from the field of so. Lake
international contacts and activity can provide in all sectors and disciplines to gain but should
are not an end in itself. Cf. infra (V)
9. Culture plays a decisive role in development. Unfortunately, art is still not a priority for most
countries in the South. And yet, as everywhere in the world there is no lack of art in the South
initiatives. The Flemish Community must develop a policy framework that has the intention to
grants to respond to questions from the south, submitted by artistic organizations, federations
governments. Also, cooperation between organizations from the North and the South must all
given opportunities. (F) (F) (EU)
10. Green will focus on the ratification of the Convention Cultural Diversity (UNESCO, 2005). That protects the
right of countries to develop their own and distinct cultural and support. (V)
11. The language policy jointly with the Dutch Language Union (NTU) should be better targeted and
communicated. We need to focus on the place of Dutch abroad on
Language diversity on strategies to prevent language delay, language technological applications, but
always from the standpoint of the language. If there is a spelling change has to come in 2015, then
we must avoid making spelling even more complex. (V)
PROPOSALS FOR CROSS COMPLIANCE
12. The number of concrete initiatives to also rebuild the community and cultural life in the
school infrastructure to integrate, knows only piecemeal imitation. We provide a joint
initiative of the Ministers of Culture and Education to the Community School infrastructure component
To activate more. (V)
13. The scope of the law on public procurement should not be extended to organizations
midfield. The threshold amount should be raised up so that small and medium-sized
organizations need to worry. (EU, F)
14. Organizations that defend a general or collective interest should, on the basis of this significance a
litigation can start, ask a civil action and able to call on the Council
State. The bills are ready for quite some time. (F)
15. The Flemish government gives the Social Innovation Factory a full role in the innovation policy
Flanders. (V)
264 16. We will conduct a screening of the numerous rules impose on all governments to organizers,
festival etc., and so tackle the regulitis. We hereby stand rather for giving responsibility
and for the faith in the common sense of the organizers, then in serious control and
accountability mechanisms We also want to encourage the manifestations sustainable character
give, eg. in dealing with waste. (F) (F)
CULTURAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE FLEMISH AND FRENCH
COMMUNITY
17. Our nearest neighbor, the French Community, there is only recently a cultural cooperation agreement
closed. The concrete interpretation and application late in coming. Green wants to actively help this Convention
fill. If only because our artists, audiences, conservationists of the heritage etc. have an interest in. The
also contributes to a renewed acquaintance with cultural practices in the communities. And therein
Brussels must also be given a place precisely because there are many contacts (cf. KVS, Bozar, Flagey ...). (V)
18. Green suggests that both communities appoint someone, a kind intendant, who gets a budget
and an overall framework, in step goes in and goes to talk to many people from both Communities,
resulting in a proposal that is likely to be more innovative and surprising than a proposal of a
Flemish-French working group that everything 25 times weighed up will have.
19. In addition, both communities should release a joint sum of money to projects
are borne by supporting cultural organizations from both communities. This can be special
dynamism to this cooperation agreement.
CULTURAL INFRASTRUCTURE
20. Sustainable infrastructure is essential, with a focus on energy consumption, safety, accessibility
and conditions of the various functions are matched to each other. We want a green culture house plan.
We want the resources of the Foci (Fund for Cultural Infrastructure) above wagers and increase firm.
The recent initiatives ecoculture, Ecosport and durability are given every opportunity. We like
to Pulse, and the transition to local area networks (Green Track) that have started well and on two tracks
work, operational and substantive. (V) Special efforts are needed to art and history
cultural infrastructure where tension between preservation and energy-related
buildings. Green advocates consultation with the heritage to look for good practices that buildings
sustainability with respect for the historical identity.
21. Green argues for a more integrated approach to (cultural) infrastructure. Many public
infrastructure is not used efficiently. Many classrooms are empty during the day when there is a need for classrooms
for other functions such as child care, association activities, education and training. But also many
other buildings are in the evening empty as school buildings, town halls, etc. are also often
staff employed solely for one sector. The sharing of premises and people can help a lot to the cost to
lower and take up less space. A more 'open' can also use the barriers to cultural
activities help break down and make investments more responsibly. Green advocates
multifunctional approach to public infrastructure, as far as practicable. (V)
CREATIVE INDUSTRIES
22. For the promotion of initiatives at the interface of culture and enterprise is CultuurInvest. We
to evaluate the fund carefully - what effects it has had? - And adjust if necessary. (V)
23. It can not be the intention to implement the philosophy of Creative Europe in Flanders.
Grants to organizations and artists (theater, film, visual arts ...) must always be possible,
without any 'login' to Europe. They also can not be replaced by an economically oriented
instruments. The free trade agreements with eg the USA should not create obstacles to subsidization
cause. We put pressure on the European institutions to enforce it. (EU) (V) (B)
Interculturalisation
24. The existing Market Knowledge Interculturalism does good work. We want their initiatives (Action Day and
website) continue. (V)
265 25. We also want to support all initiatives that originate at the base better. The associations
of ethnic minorities, we need to talk about their expanding role and mission and provide them better there
for support. (see socio-cultural work) (V)
26. We will support the concept of intercultural mediators and promote.
27. We want to give incentives to the diversity in administrative, staffing etc. of NPAs
to improve. This involves an intercultural enrichment, which clearly goes beyond simply
Involving a number of people with names that are not from the local tribal history. We want to work with
stakeholders to develop a range of new methodologies and cultural centers to encourage
make diversity plan which targets are posited.
SUPERSTRUCTURE
28. A good superstructure (organizations on the second line) is necessary. The support centers provide research,
reflection, quality promotion and coordination. They are a catalyst between policy and field (artist,
organization, association ...), between universities and public, between information and education among government
and practice, between the society and the culture practice. The advocates defend the
interests of their subdivision. (V)
29. Scientific and policy oriented research is done, but there is continuity needed. We want
also unlock better results. (V)
30. Green is a strategic advisory council for Culture, Youth, Sports and Media which is autonomous,
composed of experts and representatives from civil society, and is well supported. The
leads to a higher quality of policy.
INVESTIGATIONS SHOULD BE OPEN AND TRANSPARENT
31. Go Green for an open and transparent approach throughout the process. From the application to the
decision. An open process helps to ensure that the proceedings are fair and correct, that the
(social) debate nourished and can proceed founded during the trial, that the motives of
decisions are known, and the final results correspond as closely as possible to the
principles of the decrees. A transparent process makes visible lobbying and limited impact
thereof. It allows anyone to evaluate decisions. (V)
ARRANGEMENTS BETWEEN GOVERNMENT LEVELS AND DEPARTMENTS
32. We shall work on a much better harmonization of rules of government. Many cultural organizations
facing problems around the issue of tax certificates, recognition in the context of the
training vouchers for employees, recognition of qualifications in the context of the SME portfolio,
exemptions under the VAT law, the law on public procurement and
street trading, etc. (F) (B)
FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS HONOR HONOR
33. The enrollment decrees that subsidies now paid within the limits of the appropriations,
should be deleted. This provision harms legitimate expectations. (V)
Depoliticise BOARDS OF DIRECTORS AND DIRECTORS
34. The boards of the major Flemish cultural institutions, as well as federal cultural institutions
are compiled by governments. They have a thorough politicization. We shall
replaced by a board of experts from various disciplines who are independent of political parties
can fulfill their administrative tasks. The appointment of the directors must be stripped of politics
favoritism. (F) (F)
VOLUNTEERING APPRECIATE
35. The law on voluntary work is under constant pressure to adapt the compensation rules. We
insist that there is no further erosion of these rules. Discussions on some of the applications
266 semi-agoral atmosphere should be conducted outside the vrijwilligerswet. As a correct and proper
reimbursement of supervisors (teacher, choreographer, conductor in the amateur arts, ...) and a clear
status' attendant culture. Green does not advocate an increase in the ceilings for the
Volunteers fee. Who gets up there, it can build up social rights, but we advocate
also an effective policy of undeclared work through appropriate fiscal regime with a liberating
tax as in copyright. A single definitive taxation of 15% is much
can solve problems. (F)
36. The authorities will establish an extension of the collective insurance for volunteers, especially
also to regulate the directors' liability. (F) (V)
37. We call for the recognition of the festival stewards through the regulation of football stewards from to
Upgradeable to fuif- and festival stewards. (F)
CUSTOM TAXATION
Green advocates a fair tax framework, with as few exceptions as possible.
38. The most important need is for which a reduced and uniform rate of VAT for all cultural products. The
high standard VAT rate (21%) have significant financial impact, including in the literature (digital books), and
the music sector. (EU) (F)
39. We support the extension of the tax deductibility through the small patronage for music. We will
a fund to support small patronage for the arts if it will benefit artists
working in a subsidized context. The expenses are tax deductible, with no time limitation but
with an upper limit. (F) (F)
40. We stand for the abolition of withholding tax for foreign artists in a mutually
subsidized context. Despite the initial objective of this Convention to avoid double taxation
and if cultural mobility not to complicate further, this tax is counterproductive for many
programs that fund the promotion of mobility of artists within the European Union.
41. Artists can earn much from one year and another year little. Taking into account the
specific working conditions of artists and so on fluctuating revenue, it would be progressive
tax rate should be disconnected from the annualiteitsprincipe.
ARTS
Art stirs, moves, puzzling, questioning, amazing, emancipates. Art is so valuable that we ensure that
we may retain those that we facilitate the creation, stimulate participation. Art speaks to all human faculties:
intellectual, mental, physical abilities and qualities.
In Flanders there is a lot of creative talent in our community. We should cherish. The Arts Act,
recently renovated with the support of Green, is a good basis for art policy. It allows to appreciate to what
arises, which grows from the bottom up.
THREAT marketing
42. The marketing plucked mercilessly on all sides: cultural organizations need to attract a lot of people, in their own
resourced and further collaborations with private partners. Reduce governments
subsidies, or shift resources around in exchange for all kinds of obligations. The new culture program
European Union that will start from 2014, Creative Europe, the arts look purely from a
economic perspective. The principle of subsidizing arts themselves are under pressure. Art is approached as
a part of the creative economy in a single market. Green will fight marketing. (V)
(F) (EU)
NOT SAVE THE FUNDS FOR ARTS AND FILM
43. Green will offer enough space and opportunities to the Flemish Literature Fund and the Flemish
Audiovisual Fund (VAF). These institutions are powerful players in the art field. Characteristic for
these funds is that they support disciplines that hover on the border of the profit (market) and the
Nonprofit (government) and the support is temporary. Regarding literature, Green will deploy more resources
non-fiction. The comic authors deserve continued attention. (V)
267 A FAIR AND QUALITATIVE ASSESSMENT
44. Applicants deserve a fair and correct advice. The new system of committees
be composed of a wide pool of assessors with expertise, and who had previously on the base of
features than those compiled from disciplines must ensure this. The committees must
Avoid taste preferences and tradition, and honestly assess the quality criteria. The opinions of need
be a high level. (V)
WORKING ON ETHNIC-CULTURAL DIVERSITY IN THE ARTISTIC WORLD
45. We are working on a more colorful art field. An important part of the art field in Flanders
blank. There are (too) little intrinsic workings working from an intercultural context. There are also few
organizations realize an artistic program that is (partly) outside the western artistic
idiom is.
46. ​​Obviously, there must arise artists who do the same. Undoubtedly must therefore other
places than just invested through the arts. Among others in the art schools, part-time
the arts, social and cultural associations, etc. In the present times is a priority
This choice more than justified. (V)
47. We would also get rid of the misconception that non-Western artists must necessarily ethnic arts
practice. Diversity means eg. An artist with (also) a beautiful Turkish origin
rock singer can be either a classical violin virtuoso. This naturally also applies to the literature, the theater, etc.

CATCH-UP MOVE FOR SOCIAL AND ARTISTIC WORKS, arts education EA ALS
INHERENT PART OF THE ART SECTOR
48. These disciplines were treated shabbily. Green opts for a catch. The
socio-artistic work provides final artistic results of a high level after a work that social
effects belongs to the participants. The social-artistic work also provides an important added value
for the arts. This young sector to growth opportunities. The substantive support through the
art fulcrum or via Demos must be ensured. (V)
49. The weak state of the art education ties in seamlessly. The importance of arts education for
a broadening and deepening of the active and passive cultural participation can not be underestimated. Also
Green is here for a serious career. (V)

LESS PRODUCTION PENALTY AND EXTENDED PLAY SERIES
50. It is very much created in Flanders. Many performances are not (too) little play.
Production Coercion is not useful. Rather than (too) quickly to start up a new business, it is better to
consider keeping the existing productions longer on the repertoire. Why productions no longer
play? That way, more people can see them playing longer sets (and hence may be slightly less
productions) also fits into the transition thinking towards greater sustainability. (V)

SUPPORT FOR GOOD CINEMA
Despite the digitization that the future prospects of the finer movie theaters (called. Arthouse cinema)
are mortgaged. It involves exhibitors of films with a predominantly artistic character. They usually draw
smaller, more specific audience than the so-called mainstream movie audiences.
51. Unlike most other countries in Western and Northern Europe the Flemish
arthouse cinemas subsidized substantial nor permanent, and there is no integrated audiovisual
vertonerbeleid in which they play a role. A subsidy should be possible. Furthermore, we go for
collaboration with art centers, cultural centers and other cultural centers. (F) (EU)

MUSIC AND AGAIN MUSIC
52. We go for a better appreciation and support of rock and jazz, especially through the renewed
instruments of the Arts Act, but supplemented with our own instruments. (V)
268

53. Many local artists do well in Flanders and Belgium, but their success in their own country
limit reached and exceeded the boundaries only with difficulty. They must be given support and incentives
also by growing abroad. (V)
54. Green will provide the legal framework of fiscal, social law and copyright policy more transparent
make. (F)

ARCHITECTURE
Architecture is the essence of politics in common that they want to change the living conditions of people and at best - improve. Between architecture and society, there is a special dynamic. She tries
added value (beauty, utility and sustainability) to create and strives rational to jump with
available materials and space.
55. Authorities at various levels must strongly take their responsibility as exemplary
client to act. Public procurement is the formula of the Open Call of the team
Flemish Government Architect appropriate. The Flemish Government itself needs a lot more effort
supply. (V)
56. bet on sustainable building policies Bouwmeester. Architecture not only contributes to
beauty, usability, but also to sustainability. The construction of sustainable homes and cities;
especially down on the use and development of renewable energy sources, improving
insulation materials and the use of materials with a smaller environmental impact in a
circular economy. It is also about cultural sustainability, the preservation of the memory of a
city ​​or country. Just look at the heritage and monument care. (V)
57. The team of the Flemish Government Architect and the Flemish Architecture Institute continue to clash seriously
limitations in the realization of their objectives. Green asks the Flemish Government expressly
commitment, clear objectives and adequate resources. (V)
58. In the development of integrated, cultural projects around reflection on architecture, the Flemish
Architecture Institute took the lead. Green endorses the importance of awareness and
framework, participation and broadening support for contemporary architecture. The relevant
themes within that architecture can not stay indoors, but an audience of non-experts
reach. (V)
59. There is a need for professional development of local cultural organizations architecture. Their place in the
new Arts Act should be strengthened. (V)
60. The use of "commissioned art" should go far beyond the 'decorating' of public buildings by
placing the proverbial icing on the cake. A visual artist must at an early stage
a public construction project to be involved. The Flemish Government that dialogue is not only for the
consistently promoting its own architectural heritage, but the recognition of art commissioned as a solid
encouraging part of the public building process. (V)
61. The international positioning of our architecture is underdeveloped. The renewed
Arts Act should this artistic side of architecture internationally trestles, including in the
foreign architecture biennales. (V)

INTERNATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES FOR GROWTH
The Belgian and Flemish market is small, while there is enough talent to compete with other countries. There
get on our own, requires a heavy investment in terms of time and finances. Due to smart incentive
more great bands play an international and thus larger market. We think of:
62. The incorporation of the international artists' policy in a separate organization, at arm's length from the
government. Which can build a wide networks make their own artistic choices and the artists with the
Most select potential and support: through residencies, invitations from major
presentation places like festivals and events, tours etc. (V)
63. The term "growth opportunities" is not a plea for proliferation. Internationalization is often at odds with
durability. Therefore, it can be thought about better planning (avoiding for a performance
flies a party to, say, Tokyo), working with the local organizers (use
local decor and technicians), choosing slower movements (train where possible, sea transport
decor is also by ship) and possibly compensation of air travel (through Gold Standard projects). Also in
the arts sector, it makes sense to depart from the principle 'the polluter pays'. Systematically
preparation of the CO2 balance of production and tour can serve as a good tool, which
Government efforts in this area also assignable.
269

BOOKS AND AGAIN BOOKS
Green carries the book in the heart. Our policies:
64. A support for a broad-based policy to promote reading, based on a joint action plan
from Culture, Education, Welfare, Social Welfare and Poverty Alleviation. (V)
65. A greater financial leeway for a full-fledged non-fiction and foreign policy and to the historical
backwardness of the financing of the literary society to eliminate. (V)
66. Run the master plan for the book trade in Flanders, including a media campaign to promote
the book. (V)
67. book deliveries (and also carriers of music, film etc.) to schools, libraries and
government agencies in addition to quantitative also enter qualitative award criteria. In function of a
variety, quality service and support quality bookstore. (V)
68. The commercialization countering author archives and other valuable documentary collections. The
democratic access to this cultural heritage goes beyond marketing. (V)
69. The introduction of a regulated book prices. This means for the reader to permanently books
are offered at affordable prices and guarantees the choice of a broad, diverse and quality
supply through many outlets. (F)

CIRCUS
Contemporary circus has a lot in common with other performing arts such as theater and dance, a good idea
is a mixture of different disciplines. It is a law that the new culture and arts
is not easy to win their place within the regulations and budgets. Circus is such a new form of work which
itself is interesting to unfold. Circus Center Flanders does a lot of meaningful work. Some circus festivals
belong to the international top. Again, the promotion of international exchange is a challenge. Traditional
nomadic circuses have, however, difficult in the changed social context.
70. We will develop it carefully accentuated circus policy further, within the specific circus decree
and the policies we detect a number of issues such as minimal budgets at the level of the
Arts, structural recognition of circus companies, the support of the youth circus workshops, a
DKO education for circus or an equivalent, and a circus college, (ev. In collaboration with the
French Community), the development of a course designed for professional circus creation and demand in
Brussels . (V, B)

ARTIST OF THE REGULATIONS
The social status of artists is still much to improve. Green is correct and so full
protection of artists. Article 1a of the Social Security Act provides that any person working on behalf on payment of a fee,
and this to be an artistic achievement, suspected employee. The result is that the person who
Contractor / artist pays, is deemed to be an employer. Not every client is already in the state, however,
taking employers' obligations in itself. For that there exist Social Agencies for Artists.
71. Eliminating differences creative and performing artists. The unemployment regulations
there is a distinction between creative (eg composers) and performers
(for example
singers
and
musicians).
The
distinction
generates
discrimination
in
the
unemployment regulations to which an end must be made. Thus, for musicians
show artists the 'cachet rule', while not applicable to other artists
(such as composers, but also visual artists, writers, ....). Both can be in a comparable
situation, namely work on commission, with short-term contracts, irregular work and
Working with a task wage. We support the long-stated demand for the scheme in the cachet
Unemployment regulations to extend to creative artists.
72. The seal arrangement, the artist will be reimbursed for the days when one is not working. Once
in this system should be a limited number of services rendered to a
to receive unemployment benefits. We want to improve the cachet scheme for the artists involved,
but at the same time preventing abuse. With a view to improving the quality of the artist status,
we are going to extend the cachet regulation to other fields of social security
(maternity insurance, pensions ...).
73. According to a literal interpretation of artists to work on commission, which many artists
(ie. authors, visual artists, photographers ...) are excluded. (F)
270

74. The conditions for obtaining social rights are not adapted to the artistic
sector, since the social legislation assumes that workers with contracts of longer or
employed indefinite. (F)
75. The artist card, which verification of compliance with the terms of the small fees
(KVR) permits exist (still) not. This instrument is necessary. There is a KB announced to this
unloading. We will monitor this.
76. There should be representatives of the artistic sector include Artists in the Commission.
(F)
77. For artists in the early stages of their careers, the social status must admit that their project
growing steadily for several years. We think of a trial period of three years. The commission artists can
assess the applications.
78. The Belgian social security system should be tailored to work with foreign
artists. Organizers and performers today experienced quite a few problems (system of annual
holidays, independence declarations, ....). (F)
79. Artists can earn a lot of the one year and another year little. By annualiteitsprincipe and
the progressive tax they pay, spread over several years (two), more taxes than a
person with equal incomes. The progressive rate should be disconnected from the
annualiteitsprincipe. (F)

LOCAL CULTURAL POLICY
The local culture is maturing. The crosslinked different cultural forms, the professional
and the amateur arts sectors (eg. health and education) and ensures local ownership and dynamism.

Vigilant in new rules
80. BBC Introducing (Management and Policy cycle) led to the mandatory local
cultural plan disappeared. This can be a blessing if the culture is better integrated with
other sectors, but it can also prove to be a curse as cultural and weaken. The first
signals are not so positive. It is highly questionable whether removal of all Type of staff
resources will ultimately be positive. Green will closely monitor the effects. Then it will become clear whether
qualitative criteria should be. For Green is an exciting interplay between autonomous local
boards and a proactive Flemish government essential for each inhabitant of Flanders and Brussels
to ensure equal opportunities in culture. (V)

Cultural and community centers
81. The cultural and community centers are under pressure from the public figures. They have a wide
culture spreading and promoting participatory role, too vulnerable and difficult art forms, and a
more locally oriented offerings. We go to a local anchoring of the program. We advocate that
too popular programming does not make it on artistic quality. (V)
82. Quite a few cultural centers present themselves as competitors of each other. This increases their fees
of companies. When it comes to subsidized compagnies are twice public there
deployed resources. Mutual cooperation to affordable buy-out payments (and ticket prices) to off
force is needed. (V)
Local culture is also ...
83. Culture has yet more to the streets: in squares and parks as venues. Neighborhoods and neighborhood policing can sometimes
generate much more impact than "the church" or "Flanders". For cultural (participation in
general) is the place to invest in.
84. Flanders should give impetus to those municipalities that have not boarded in the local culture. The
use of eg. mobile cultural coordinators would make sense, and can the story in a municipality
pull motion. The same applies to the following point, pulling initiating a policy aimed at
disadvantaged groups.
85. In the promotion of cultural participation of disadvantaged towns and cities play a central
role. We want to generalize the instruments of the participation. (V)

PUBLIC LIBRARIES
Public libraries evolve places of lending books and music to different nodes
disciplines and exchange of information, the interpretation of the classic functions remains important, but the operation can and
must be broadened. Anyway necessary basic services remain accessible to all people equal
to provide access to the information society.
271

86. The libraries permanently bets as to disseminate culture and cultural education institutions: the
access to literature, music, information. (V)
87. Increase Accessibility for target groups such as young people, school leavers, the unemployed, the elderly,
migrant communities and providing them with free access to important services. (V)
88. Green will strengthen the educational role of libraries in the context of lifelong
learning: libraries can offer both non-formal and informal learning in the form of
workshops, lectures, reading clubs, debates, computer and Internet initiations ... Acquisition is there a
part of it. (V)
89. Work on e-Inclusion: Strengthening digital skills and e-skills, unemployment and social
exclusion counter. (V)
90. Leesplezier stimulate and develop a literary effect. (V)
91. The role of strengthening the library as a meeting place (community building), a place where citizens without
obligation may linger, a newspaper or magazine to read, a chat can beat other
visitors. (V)
92. The library as knowledge and information refocus. It is the suitable place for the wide range
accessible and make. Digital sources, like Google, are useful but provide an overload
of information. Filter and select shapes the challenge. Public libraries play a
key. (V)
93. Cooperation with mainstream education by strengthening the support and enrich the educational
goals: reading and learning fun for children, gain experience in using information for knowledge,
understanding, creativity and relaxation, help in learning of information literacy, access to
sources, offer the opportunity to come into contact with diverse ideas, experiences and opinions, and
organizing activities that encourage cultural and social awareness. (V)
94. The Flemish E-book platform so develop that reading remains accessible. (V)
95. Taking responsibility for the care of the local literary and audiovisual heritage. (V)
96. Developing a common membership for public libraries in Flanders. (V)
97. Building the digital public library (all user information and access to the catalogs
Flemish public libraries). (V)
98. A secure appropriate services for persons with reduced mobility. For people with a
visual reading disability (visually impaired), the library service needs of Listen Point
to be strengthened. This target group will be extended to people with other reading disabilities (such as
dyslexia, MS and aphasia). As well as for newcomers, for those who read restricted in his
Dutch language. (F) (V)

CULTURAL HERITAGE
The social relevance of cultural heritage shows itself in the interest and value people and
communities attach to it. And it is high. Several governments support from their own perspective a
heritage operation, often they themselves eg. the 'organizing body' of a museum, archive, library heritage,
scientific documentation center, ... But the Flemish resources remain very limited. And above all, we lack vision.
99. Green will work to ensure that there is a ministerial vision statement 'movable heritage' comes. Such a document should be a
open public debate soak. It should result in a master movable heritage. (V)
100. The cultural agreement between the Flemish and French community pays little attention to cultural
heritage. We ask for an extension with a chapter on cultural heritage. The bilingual
Brussels-Capital and the federal government should be involved, not least with a view
an unequivocal intra-Belgian masterpieces policy, the loan traffic and aligning the many
onderzoeksbesognes. (F) (F) (B)

COLLECTING: HERITAGE COLLECTION, A CONTINUING CHALLENGE, ALSO FOR
GOVERNMENT
A well thought-collection policy (donations, purchases, loans, disposals, ...) is fundamental to the
coherence and uniqueness value of cultural heritage.
101. An overarching Flanders Collection Plan to be drawn to public support
to increase the cultural heritage field. This is reinforced by the acquisition of Young Masters
within the fund highlights and key work within the policy. (V)
102. For the intangible cultural heritage is a restart of identifying, documenting and
gradually clustering of similar phenomena needed. (V)
272

103. There is a need for an equal treatment of museums, cultural heritage, archives and libraries in the
subsidy policy. Heritage Libraries should be a recognition / subsidy in Flanders
acquire. (V)
104. The legal uncertainty for public archives in Flanders has to go through a
coordination between the Flemish and the federal government. (F) (F)
105. Green will facilitate more donations and bequests of valuable pieces tax. (F) (F)

CONSERVATION AND MANAGEMENT OF THE HERITAGE COLLECTIONS
106. Mapping and describing the physical condition of the collection, an action plan
preventive and active conservation and restoration, an effective warehouse management, contingency planning and
guarantees on security. (V)
107. The long-term digital preservation of cultural heritage is a huge challenge. Their readability
depends on transitory media and readers. For certain audiovisual collections
deployed through the VIAA, which must be developed sustainably. (V)
108. To safeguard the intangible heritage is permanent need for sustained support and
expert guidance. A decree anchor it is an important guarantee. (V)
109. There is a need for quality training for preservation, conservation and restoration of the various
carriers and materials. (V)

RESEARCH
110.

The research function in Flanders explicit policy and structural support. The
foster cooperation with scientific institutions and better enable heritage organizations
to actively participate in research programs. (V)

PUBLIC ACTION
111.

112.

The cultural and social diversity in the cultural heritage sector is developing steadily
"Flemish heritage 'to a different operating around' heritage in (relation to) Flanders': migration heritage
shared heritage 'source communities abroad ... Stronger catch up in this area
is necessary. (V)
The concept of heritage community in implementing the Cultural Heritage Act, which is more than "opening
of cultural heritage. " (V)

INTERNATIONAL POSITIONING
In a globalizing world should be able to join the cultural heritage field with the international standards, thesauri,
practices and networks. An international framework is necessary. Multilingualism here is a must. Participation
in international networks and exchange essential.
113. An international policy that is similar to the intrinsic value of collections instead of on the market
Putting Flanders as a brand and support of networking opportunities for economic and
political decision-makers. (V)
114. Belgium is one of the three European countries where there is no system of overheidsindemniteit
(state insurance for loans with recognized heritage actors) exists. However already circulating since
2008 draft for such a decree and various principles and possibilities were already expanded
researched and described. We shall indemniteitsdecreet immediately for discussion and voting
submit. (V)
115. The EU legislation is increasingly heavy on the Belgian, Flemish and local heritage policy.
European measures such as the Copyright Directive and the orphan works, the Directive
PSI re-use, Europeana ... with not always positive impact on the cultural heritage sector. They are controlled outside the restricted European cultural policy. The social and
more cultural values ​​often disappear behind other interests. (F) (EU)
116. Improving the quality of Europeana. It increases the visibility of the European cultural heritage,
stimulating its use and encourages digitization. (EU)

273

DIGITAL HERITAGE
If Flanders wants to continue to position itself as a knowledge region and the (digital) heritage in a sustainable way
(re) use "will create for other applications, the care of (digital) cultural heritage is a basic requirement. This
means:
117. Sustainable digital access to cultural heritage and treat a priority. This supposes
agreements on both the selection for digitization and digital preservation as the roles and
responsibilities in a directing role of the Flemish government. (V)
118. The cultural heritage sector provide financial incentives for the (digital) valorization of collections. And a
solution to the problems posed by the current copyright laws (see below). (F) (V)
119. The creation of a central aggregation platform that is as rich as possible standard for the exchange
uses of metadata. This takes into account the operation of existing heritage portals (such as
Archive Bank Flanders, VKC, Luke, Flemish heritage library ...). (V)

INTANGIBLE HERITAGE
The intangible cultural heritage is too long remained underexposed. We need to "protect" the term has been replaced by
"To safeguard the intangible cultural heritage". We like the concept of heritage communities (= a community
composed of organizations and individuals who attach particular importance to the cultural heritage) further expansion.
A policy for intangible cultural heritage is not limited to the (subsidized) cultural heritage sector, but
among others also about the arts, agriculture and fisheries, the immovable heritage field, ...
120. Cultural heritage organizations with expert knowledge can help the heritage communities analysis
make any phenomena, traditions, customs and knowledge which is intangible cultural heritage and
"Heritage reflex" to tighten. The Flemish Community, that networks of expertise
support. She closes as with the UNESCO Convention of 2003. It is a national core expertise
or network for stories, dialects, oral history and storytelling, a core of expertise
cultural heritage in the arts field, and key cultural heritage of parades, festivals, rituals and
social interaction, a network for knowledge about nature and the universe, and a core dedicated to
the intangible cultural heritage of techniques and crafts. The Cultural Heritage Decree provides that
in. After all, today is already subsidized cores including religious heritage, agricultural heritage. (V)
121. "A Inventory Flanders" to a "Database on Intangible Cultural Heritage in Flanders." The
documenting and inventorying intangible cultural heritage is a requirement of the Convention. The current
Inventory Flanders should be a more comprehensive instrument, it must include the intangible cultural
heritage visualize, visualize the changing character, good practices, experts and
cores demonstrate expertise, development of guarantee measures, and measures for transfer, etc. based
of a database. (V)
122. It is for the Flemish community to raise awareness of intangible cultural heritage in the
education curriculum, the training offer of the VDAB, in the course offerings of the sociocultural
associations and amateur organizations. (V)
123. The Flemish Community monitors the quality and moderates. It is seeking a balance between
different angles, eg in the relationship between intangible cultural heritage and authenticity, tradition
and identity and popular culture and in the transmission of intangible heritage and evolving vs.
freeze. (V)

CULTURAL HERITAGE AND OTHER POLICY
124. 'Integrated' heritage policy means that the heritage policy must be adapted to other domains
(Convention of Faro). Heritage is often the raw materials or the means of policy objectives in other
to realize policy. Think of educational institutions, churches, social workers,
housing companies, creative industries, urban developers, tourism organizations,
visual artists, voluntary associations, theater makers and musicians, farmers,
entrepreneurs ... These sectors can be mutually reinforcing sustainable. There must be safeguarded
intrinsic value of the cultural heritage activity; they should not be used merely as a means. (V)

274

HERITAGE PROPERTY

INVENTORY
125. Inventory of architectural heritage in Flanders finalizing definitive and educate municipalities
inventory, central database to manage Flanders. The Flemish administration must experience
with parts inventory of the architectural heritage with its local partners. On the basis of good
appointments municipalities and associations to the 'gaps' in the Flemish inventory fill autonomous. In
function of managing and protecting the data collected can be accessed centrally. (V)
126. The Central Archaeological Inventory should certainly cherish the ambition of an area-wide
realize archaeological inventory and mapping. (V)
127. Aligning inventories protections: devising a rational and considered thematically
protection policy. The program was often also by personal preferences or political
Considerations controlled, eg. protecting war cemeteries. Because it is impossible to everything
protect, leaves every protection from the known database architectural heritage,
landscape atlas and the central archaeological inventory. It must move away from the
facade inventory, or rather the object oriented approach as we know it today. We have to
come to study and inventory of urban wholes as feedstock for good spatial
planning and careful management in historic city centers. (V)
128. We need to create a link between the inventory Architectural Heritage and demolition permits. The
current regime - a recommendation of the Flemish administration of the municipality - all too easily leads to
demolition or embarrassing maintaining a facade. The procedure should be revised so that a people
may launch appeal procedure leading to a decision on the Flemish level. (V)
129. For the landscapes there to catch backlog. Heritage Landscapes are based on
anchorages, the most valuable landscapes of Flanders, where a completely different
heritage elements (besides landscape also architectural or archaeological) occurs. The term
anchorages should be done more powerful. (V)
130. The policy of rolling heritage and develop better water heritage. Also worthy of underwater heritage
attention. (F) (F)

PROTECTION
131. During the next legislature the most valuable and protected elements of immovable heritage
which, based on ancient protections protection regulations are uncertain, again as
submit protection. (V)

MANAGE: RESTORATION AND MAINTENANCE
132. At present, the management, maintenance or restoration of landscapes, archaeological zones or



(V)



(V)

FOCUS ON SERVICE AND ENVIRONMENTAL INNOVATION
134. We place a great emphasis on maintenance (prevention) and in the care of sustainability (including on field
energy, customized materials etc.). Green will pay close attention to (investigate) innovation
(eg. energy saving measures, thermal comfort). (V)
135. The abandoned maintenance premiums for public authorities should be introduced urgently return. (V)
136. We are also committed to the heritage of contemporary features and applications. We must dare
innovate with respect for the original. (V)

SOCIAL SUPPORT AND PUBLIC OPERATION
There must be much more attention to the development of public support for the
immovable heritage. There remains a distrust of government in relation to the individual citizen and lots
space for the responsible administration. Our policies:
275

137. The role of the administration's continue to evolve from the inspection to coaching and mentoring.
(V)
138. Focusing on the development of sustainable tools (routes, information, panels, websites, etc.) and less
single shots. We opt for a strong collaboration between property and cultural heritage,
where a lot of expertise on promotion, access, education, etc. (V)
139. evaluate Heritage Vault. During the previous government, the Heritage Safe was created. This
fund as well CultuurInvest drawn by PMV (PMV). We want the
Safe preserve heritage, but thoroughly evaluate - what effects it has had ?, how transparent are the
decisions by the Heritage Safe? - And adjust if necessary. (V)
140. Since 2012 Herita provides a participatory role within the Flemish heritage policy. The goals
ambition for this association are grand. Green wants this organization more transparent and powerful blow to
work
goes
and
a
clear
vision
develops
on
heritage.
The different management objectives of this association must comply with the orders of the administration
can be matched.

ENFORCEMENT
141. We strengthen enforcement. For derelict buildings whose owners the maintenance obligation is not
respect, the government will take stronger so that the building does not perish. (V)

RELIGIOUS HERITAGE
142. Religious heritage is a major concern. We need to see these great buildings - there are growing ever more freely -
provide a valuable new interpretation. We prefer a 'signifying' function as a
exhibition hall, a youth center, a sports hall or a bookstore. A multi-religious interpretation is
attractive. For valuable churches surgery should be reversible. There should also be given
be co-managed partial rezoning, ... (F)

UPDATING OF THE DECREE
143. More attention to landscapes by approaching them holistically, including as part of Flemish spatial
and nature. This means the speeding up of the indication of anchorages, the translation of
landscape into spatial implementation plans ... Just as the landscape Firenze Convention can in
Flanders positively fruitful. (V)
144. Integrated management plans are a logical choice. The new decree provides for the built heritage
preparation of integrated management plans for areas and grounds, where from the Flemish government
different policy objectives apply. This policy option will unabridged Green in
Implementing be recorded. (V)
145. Heritage Associations, as Herita and Monument Watch, do a good job in creating a wide
basis for the implementation of the Flemish heritage policy. The funding of these associations must
decree basis be ensured. (V)
146. In a decree (and not in an implementation) rules regarding the recognition of the record
immovable heritage community, the intermunicipal OE service reservoir for, archaeologist, archaeological
Solidarity Fund, ... (F)
147. Creating Clarity about the relationship between the environmental and the opinion of immovable heritage.
(V)
148. A robust solution for a strong archaeological solidarity fund. That means a mandatory contribution
the spatial and initiators of the Flemish government (one euro for one euro). (V)
149. Strengthening the counseling via two lines: KCML which gives technical advice and
expertise commission in charge of the second line advice on appeals. (V)
150. Heritage Target Plans (and Flemish policy plans) as strategic deployment plan contract between the province and
immovable heritage municipalities and other administrations. Test some vision with third parties, such as local
authorities and private individuals, in need of an entrenched legal basis and can implement this plan
ensure, through an action plan. (V)

AND CIVIL SOCIETY?
151. It is necessary that there is a society organizations in this sector. Existing structures
are controlled by the government. The role of government is not a problem, if there is also
an advocate is that groups many voluntary and professional initiatives. (V)

276

A SILENT SOCIO-CULTURAL (R) EVOLUTION
Something is happening in Flanders and Brussels. On the rock solid foundations of activation, emancipation and sense
community, social and cultural work is moulting: a predominantly introverted sector
an open and innovative space.
To strengthen the power of socio-cultural work, it will be necessary for the government this type of work more space
displays. Now organize governments often too self through local service centers, cultural and community centers. Governments
should allow more room for the initiative of citizens and associations. Organizing activities even below the
price to be charging associations (except for groups) is not correct. Giving space also means
not impose too many rules (see point 29).

GENERAL POLICY PROPOSALS FOR SOCIO-CULTURAL WORK
152. The broad socio-cultural work should be able to maintain its sanctuary. After all, we see an increasing
instrumentalization. The sector is used by the government to help realize its goals. Much
associations in such a straightjacket dropped them in a position of the subcontractor
government gain. The fine tradition in youth work and the socio-cultural work that the government itself
interferes with the substantive aspects of the operation, but finance in an intrinsic
value to society, is slowly disappearing. That is a principle we want to
fighting. An open society with a ditto democracy subsidizes organizations they criticize
about the government where she gets money from. (V)
153. We want to break the current decrees. New practices and broad methods fall by the wayside. We
must break through the borders of the socio-cultural adult work. The rules that the government
should be adapted to impose the new practices. (V)
154. The subsidies are too many modeled on the 'average' Flanders. Neighborhood and community initiatives
deserve continued attention. But there's more. In urbanized Flanders will sociocultural
work just to the towns 'recapture', in many shapes and forms. This requires appropriate decrees. (V)
155. The regular societies are better regulated to write high-quality files. And the eligibility criteria
are insufficient culture neutral. Which should be adapted to the wider socio-cultural work a
to provide integrated. (V)
156. It must be created space for initiatives that start from a shared identity or
cultural community. On the other hand we must invest in shared spaces, where bridges people together
encounter. Therefore we seek to form new hybrid. If we can not express ourselves,
we can not communicate. (V)
157. And the government? They must support, not only materially but also morally or cents, to each
form of self-organization and associations in whatever form or by whatever method they work in
effects of short or long term. The point is not to devel- them but encourage. Also
stop the cool times of support mechanisms. There must be room for experimentation and
innovation of socio-cultural projects and organizations. (V)
158. With regard to education, we want to work towards a revaluation of non-formal education (not on the job
oriented). (V)

Punctual PROPOSALS
Socio-cultural organizations must be given the space for other functions from their socio-cultural missions
record, even though they do not close immediately at (a restrictive interpretation of) the four functions in the decree.
(V)
159. The Flemish Government shall, by analogy with the Dynamo Project in sports, a fund which recognized
socio-cultural organizations together to work for local groups to nowhere
connected to his support. This fund is managed by the socio-cultural associations that
end commit. (V)
160. The European Union uses the Civil Society Organisations (CSOs) as a pillar for the development of a
social Europe. This also creates more space for initiatives or themes that seepage from below
to the coverage. (E)
161. The Grundtvig program has been successfully demonstrated as an amplifier of the non-formal education. This line,
to also set up non-labor centered learning, should fully be continued. (EU)

277

162. We shall ensure that the European Union is facilitating exchanges between socio-cultural organizations
various countries with a view to strengthening community building, social
activation and education. (EU)

AMATEUR ARTS
170. Creativity support and promote the mission of the sector. Besides the artistic plays
social dimension is crucial.
171. The link between the part-time art education and amateur arts should be strengthened. On the one hand
perfect amateur artists in the part-time education (inflow) and the other is the
Most of the DKO pupils in the amateur field, practicing art in the leisure visit
(outflow). (V)
172. Exemption for public lending loans for the amateur organizations. Their documentation centers
indeed have a cultural and educational mission. (F) (V)
173. An incentive to the ethnic and cultural diversity of artistic expression in the amateur arts better
to visualize and to provide more opportunities. (V)
174. Pilot projects honoring accompanying disadvantaged or disabled people. (V)
175. Encouraging innovative experiments to allow the amateur arts better link them with the
timeliness in the professional arts. (V)

FEDERAL CULTURAL INSTITUTIONS
176. The federal scientific and cultural institutions about the orphaned children of the
cultural policy. They deserve their own minister and a powerful administration. We would even dare speak of
an emergency plan. That should guarantee them sufficient resources but also encourage them to pool their resources
efficient to use to fulfill their duties in the broad cultural, library and archive sector. (F)
177. An active cooperation is needed between institutions and organizations in the communities in the areas of
international projects, studies, research and innovation for the benefit of the cultural sector and the
information sector. The information that manage settings, must be accessible and remain wide
public. (F)
178. The National Library has to its role as a national library fully true and a coordinating
and record promotional role for the libraries in Belgium. That is happening now insufficient. (F)
179. The federal and the Community institutions have important common assets. We can
involved in arts policy (Opera, Bozar ...) and in museum policy as Flanders in the next future
the recognition of museums also 'collections' let them speak and recognize / protect. That would help to bridge
build. The collaboration with IRPA-KIK is crucial. That's where your expertise on restoration and conservation.
(F) (V)

COPYRIGHT AND THE RIGHTS OF THE PUBLIC
This title refers to the vision of Green. We go out for a copyright balance "the balance between the
user interests and guaranteeing more rights holders. Citizens should have the right to
maximum access to information and culture, obviously taking into account the rights of authors. (...)
Digitisation brings great changes in society and the way people interact with
information. Rapidly develop new forms of publication.
180. We will make available to download on the Internet for all and legalized. On the one hand the need to
author will be reimbursed for the artistic performance, on the other hand we do not want hunting downloaders, nor
a system that maps browsing habits, such as the French Hadopi anti-piracy system. Via a
legal license is the proposal of an indirect flat rate fee. This means that all
downloaders contributing to the large pot, although differentiated depending on the download volume.
The EU (and therefore Belgium) should only scale commercial counterfeiting and piracy punishable.
Copyrighted works can be copied or downloaded for private purposes. The
illegal uploading however, be dealt with firmly, out of respect for the authors and their work. (F) (EU)
181. The
market dominance
finishing,
a
real
option
between
different
management companies, facilitating self-management of their own rights, maximum transparency and
an accessible online database, are important steps for more openness and flexibility
creating artists and users. We want to reduce quasi monopolies. Certainly the music industry
benefit from several authors' societies that collect and distribute royalties for musicians at all
278

transparency. (F)
182. A curtailment of the copyright term. (EU)
183. The EU (also Flanders) is to promote forms of intellectual property that make it easier
share ideas and develop as creative commons licenses. (EU) (V)
184. Green supports the request of the authors on public lending, but would at the same time no greater threshold to
conduct for library users, such as students and researchers.
185. Through digitization, institutions can make their collections more accessible to researchers and
the general public. Copyright, it is often a stumbling block. Efforts to
to identify rights holders and to obtain their consent, are at greater digitization projects as
substantial projects that are priceless in practice. The so-called 'digital black hole'
the twentieth century must be tackled. The Copyright Act must be adapted accordingly. (F)
186. The forthcoming review and / or revision of the European Copyright Directive of 2001 should be more attention
attention to the exceptions to copyright. New exceptions such as for e-lending, the
opening up of collections of settings, etc. are necessary. (E)
187. The recently adopted Directive on orphan works is setting a useless instrument, especially
in the case of mass digitization. This Directive should be reviewed as soon as possible. The
scope is too narrow, and mandatory prior diligent search in practice
unfeasible. (E)
188. We want to put an end to the unjust situation in which DRM exceptions to the
Copyright may erode. The Copyright Act must be that the heritage institutions
technological protection measures shall neutralize indeed when a
exception wish to use. This adjustment is to prevent to the e-content through licenses
Exceptions to contract out. (F)
189. The existing exemption for persons with visual impairment, we want to extend to people with
a reading disability. (F)
190. Open access, open access to scientific information online and the possibility of data mining is to
academic institutions are essential for knowledge-building and further scientific
research. Certainly research funded by public funds should be available in open access
be. This requires an exception to copyright. (F)
191. Data Collections, such as sequences of photos, texts and videos that are still protected by copyright,
must be accessible through data mining techniques for scientists.
192. The heritage institutions should be involved in the revision of the Flemish decree on re
public sector, once the amended European "Guidelines for the reuse of public sector information '
is approved.

279

MEDIA
VISION
The influence of mass media is enormous. That's an opportunity. Like no other medium
to radio, television, the Internet inform everyone in an adequate manner and committed
Turning to participate in society. But why should pluralism and
quality can be ensured.

PROPOSALS
MEDIA CONCENTRATION
Green notes that, especially in the print, the concentration of the media is progressing. That press on the quality of the
media, especially the commercial media, but also threatens the pluralism of the media.
1. The diversity of newspaper titles, and so on sources and opinions, is under substantial pressure. Tomorrow, there are in
Flanders barely two newspaper publishers, the Persgroep and Mediahuis. They different titles
issue, of course, is a resource for readers, but for how long? The control of the newspaper market, and
thus also on the quality of journalism, is now divided between two groups. We have to
worried about his. A quality and pluralistic press is an essential building block of a healthy
democracy. However, their role as the fourth estate can only work if the pluralism of opinions
is guaranteed. Green wants to modernize the existing press support (both Flemish and federal level). The
Ministers Media (Flemish) and of Public Enterprises (federal) must enter into dialogue with the
groups of media in order to ensure that the diversity is maintained. Existing financial flows towards
newspaper groups, training aid, grants for investigative journalism, the project newspaper in the classroom,
Zero VAT, but also the high support from the federal government through intervention in the postal service, the
numerous government advertisements, together account for around 300 to 400 million euros and are important keys
to
that
to
do
guarantee.
It is not the intention to reduce the press support itself, or, where possible, to link it to incentives
to enhance the working conditions of journalists and promote the quality of the media. (F) (V)

Qualitative PRESS AND PRESS ASSISTANCE
Quality Journalism in Flanders is constantly under strain. What applies to the financial world, also applies to the
media. The importance of an informed public opinion can not be stressed enough. As well as the importance
an independent and qualitative press. Which is crucial for the proper functioning of an open, democratic
welfare state.
We want independent, pluralistic quality journalism. Exactly which coverage is under heavy pressure. There must be
a set of measures are that meets it. (see above)
2. The publishers receive money from the Flemish government that supports the written press sector, aimed at maintaining
well-established, high-quality, independent editorial teams. This policy must be concrete results
are converted and amplified. A lot of money goes into research on technology, digitization, new media.
(V)
3. We want an independent and neutral as possible organ that monitors the quality of the media. In this context
Quality can be a financial bonus to be used for newspapers and magazines, for their
documentation service, training, work placements abroad, European reporting or reporting on the
'under-reported stories' in the global media. (V)
4. The Pascal Decroos Fund is one of the only agencies for ten years concrete and successful quality
journalism promotes. But the fund must make do with a small budget year, half of which
Work grants for journalists. We are going for a sharp increase in the allocation to the Fund Pascal Decroos
(by a factor of 3 to 5). After all, they contribute significantly to the quality of the press. (V)
5. Also deserves the diversity of the media a financial boost. These include new initiatives
such as Apache, the World Tomorrow, StampMedia, News Monkey, Mo, rekto: verso, etc. This amount can fiks
be raised. This can stepwise be increased by a limited displacement of the
existing press aid and redirection of part of the Flemish budget.
6. Green believes the broadcast by third parties disappear. The amount that is paid to this (1.5 million
280

euro per year) must be redirected to quality support, initially to the Fund Pascal
Decroos.
7. All media should be treated equally. It is absurd to apply a different rate of VAT
print and online media. First have 0% VAT, the digital carriers should charge 21%. Green wants
urge the European Union and take the initiative in case that the VAT rate for online media also
0% will apply.
8. Within iMinds now works MiX. It supports media innovation. In practice, the support goes only
the big media groups. Providing a better coaching and a transparent assessment of the submitted
projects are small (especially digital) media players get good access.
9. The hatch public advertisement (173 million euros, specifically the part that the federal and Flemish governments
spend) Green wants to link to guarantee good working conditions of journalists and freelancers,
the number of journalists in permanent employment, an editorial charter, etc. The conditions can be worked out
consultation with the Council for Journalism. This can be arranged through a regulatory framework or through the
incorporating the terms of agreements.
10. Publishers should undertake to make dependent the appointment of the chief editors of a
qualified majority of the editors. If such an agreement exists, she remains a dead letter. We want such
closing procedure in drafting statutes and statutory concrete pouring. (V)
11. The reader (the public) should be the policy of the newspaper in question, as eg. The case for the
French newspaper Libération. A delegation of the readers can be involved in the policy of the newspaper. They may also
regularly inquiring readers on the padded and the desired course of the newspaper. (V)
12. The Flemish culture press seems very present, especially judging by the number of pages. But if you look a little closer
notice that there is less room for contemplation and journalism background, for review, for new
and lesser known talent, for background documents on cultural policy for heritage. Critical reflection gets
little or no place. That change is happening slowly and stealthily, almost invisible to the layman.
News mainly about the toppers of the culture industry, from Werchter to Jan Verheyen. The cross-linking
between media and events resembles more on marketing than on cultural journalism. The press must support i.a.
be linked to a qualitative approach to cultural reporting. (V)

THE IMPORTANCE OF NEAR 'MEDIA
13. The importance of regional - regional media reports about city and region - radio, television, Internet sites and
written press is great. These media are recognizable, strengthen social cohesion and suit
information needs of the population. However, the viability of existing initiatives is under pressure, especially
those of regional television and radio. That will make Green work. As for the local radio we stand
a new admission round where the real local radio gets a place, preferably but not exclusively
nonprofit, with quality local information and news, some quality assurance through accreditation criteria and
through a quinquennial review, The range must remain regional. On regional television, advocating
Green for a livable scale, a separation between management and editorial, guaranteed funding through the
distributors (Telenet, Belgacom), and a regular quality audits. (V)
14. On Internet radio, DAB and ev. Other digital systems, we do not restrict. That is not necessary
because there are no technical limitations such as e.g. is the case for the FM band. The digital environment
should be as free as possible for promoters. This is part not only in the press. It also provides
opportunities for new 'near' initiatives. We think of city radio (urban radio), local television,
citizen blogs and newspapers, etc. The internet lowers the barriers and make that feasible. (V)

THE DUAL TELEVISION LANDSCAPE
There is a delicate balance between the public broadcaster (VRT) and the commercial channels. This balance is necessary in order
to keep the viable commercial channels, but it has a positive effect on the quality of both the VRT
as VTM, four etc. This quality relates primarily to the information and programs on our own Flemish production.
Thus Flanders is distinguished from abroad. If you compare our public broadcaster and the quality of our privéomroepen with foreign countries, then the bar is set pretty high here. Qualitative fiction and humor is in us all
broadcasters, VRT has a comprehensive news service and a wide range of news programs, our production companies
may be seen and often play at an international level, the entertainment that comes here on the tube is often
also higher quality than what you see on commercial stations abroad.
15. Green will seek to ensure that this balance is maintained so that quality-based competition lasting
is stimulated, and that there is no unilateral market dominance. (V)
281

CHILDREN AND TELEVISION
16. For the benefit of children and their parents, we advocate the introduction of a uniform and general
classification system, focusing on the age and content. As a model we can look at the Dutch
'Myspace'. (V)
17. We wish that there is as little publicity as possible during children's programs. The public broadcaster is
advertising child out of the question. (V)

PUBLIC BROADCASTING AND KEY BEACON
The broadcaster is a beacon for democracy, diversity and quality of the media. The decree defines it as follows: "If
public broadcaster VRT has the task to reach the largest possible number of media users with a
variety of high-quality programs that attract the interest of media users and meet them.
The VRT provides a high-quality programming in the areas of information, culture, education and entertainment.
The VRT must at the viewer and listener with specific information and cultural programs. In addition,
also sport, contemporary education, original drama and entertainment. The whole range is characterized by the VRT
by high quality of the programs, both for content, in form and language. In all of its programs
VRT strives for the highest possible quality, professionalism, creativity and originality, including new
talents and innovative forms of expression should be tapped. The range of programs on a
appropriate manner aimed at certain population and age groups, in particular on children and youth.
(...) The VRT carries through the programs in an independent, objective and pluralistic opinion in Flanders.
Therefore, he is committed to a leadership role in the field of information and culture.
We continue to stand on principle behind this broad remit of the VRT.
18. We want the VRT more 'daring'. The programming of the public broadcasting distinguish itself enough
of commercial channels. Creativity and innovation in this area is allowed. The quality, the depth, of
Some information programs should be well guarded. (V)
19. The VRT still too much focused on the ratings. She goes on that site compete with the commercial channels.
Sometimes there is little difference between (eg.) One and MNM and VTM and Q-music. The VRT must obviously a big
aspire to reach, but does not necessarily (in all areas) to be the biggest, but the best. It's about a
delicate balance between range and quality. The public broadcaster may after all not in the niche
end up. Bring quality entertainment to people allowed to bind them to a transmitter and
Info and lure cultural programs, as far as the quality bar for entertainment is placed high. (V)
20. We imagine it questions whether the broadcaster must acquire as many expensive sports rights. As long as sport at open
net ', and not behind the decoder, is presented, which should not be necessary when the VRT. (V)
21. The allocation to the broadcasting today is sufficiently high, but needs a priority in culture, in Flemish fiction (incl.
Author film) in information (eg. own documentaries) are used, and additional sports and entertainment,
on radio and television. (V)
22. Flemish offer: The VRT is committed to strong Flemish content and a strong Flemish audiovisual sector. They
does this by investing in a future-oriented and strong internal production, through strong cooperation
with external production and explore new forms of cooperation in the audiovisual sector. (V)
23. The discussion about the number of stations that public broadcasting can have both on radio and television, is
currently strongly focused on the third grid. Green thinks that this discussion does not reflect the essence. Its okay
do not care how many (digital) channels, VRT, but to offer what she brings to it, and at what
cost. The third grid offers the possibility to bring Ketnet without interruption, to encourage young people television
to spend, to pay attention to small sports etc. (V)
24. The dissemination and the experience of art and culture, for in-depth information and education is the
public broadcasting today hardly replaceable. The spread, supporting the creation and commentary
on culture in society is a key task. As the focus on education about various topics such as
environment, care, health, science, history, ... Green supports these core tasks. (V)
25. The increase in television advertising is disturbing. The dual financing model is the
cause. That should continue to exist but it should not lead to more advertising at the public broadcaster. (V)
26. To have the protection and accessibility of the video and audio archives of VRT urgently substantial
resources are deployed. The current carriers (film roll and sound bands) can be through a process of acidification
affected so that (part of) the archive is being lost. The VIAA has a promising future, and
make sure that the sound archive, Flanders memory, as widely accessible as possible
is made. The digitization of old material must be accelerated so that the digested quickly and efficiently
can become. (V)
282

27. The diversity of society must be reflected by the broadcaster. The accentuated efforts
level of training and internships can be strengthened. (see below) (V)

STRONG VLAAMSE audiovisual production
Within the VAF is next to the Film Fund a few years ago a Media Fund operates. This is the Flemish
quality independent fiction series and productions supported and made in co-production with the Public
other television makers. This involves support to fiction, animation and documentary series. Thereby be Vlaamse
production companies, which play a vital role in our landscape, also strengthened.
28. Control of the Media Fund will put further and reinforced with a support component for international
distribution of Flemish productions. (V)

AFFORDABILITY OF TELEVISION
29. Affordability of television is a concern. The increasing potential of digital television should
ensure that there is always a basic package at a low price. The government must, if necessary, to Telenet and
Belgacom impose. (V)
30. Green is as accessible as possible for a television and radio, especially the channels of the public broadcaster.
This requires the control of the duopoly for the distribution of television signal, the promotion of other
technologies such as DVB-T and the Internet, free keep the VRT websites, providing access to
the image and sound archive, an easy access (just) missed programs, ... (F)

MEDIA AND DIVERSITY
31. The Flemish government will again result commitments around ethnic and cultural diversity in its
management agreement with the VRT. This put increased targets fixed in terms of screen presence and
personnel, as well as its monitoring and re-anchor the stakeholder consultation. (V)
32. The Flemish government is taking targeted actions for more and better ethnic and cultural diversity in the private
media. This may be from the annual aid to the written press, through the Fund for Audiovisual
or through a specific call for proposals. Also, new media initiatives, for example of ethnic
minorities, are eligible. (V)
33. The Flemish government makes a deal with the regional television, which they are required
to use part of the time allowed for intercultural television from the region or city. This, coupled with the
subsidizing the regional stations. This cross-cultural television is made substantially in
collaboration with people from the ethnic-cultural groups themselves, for example through associations or
Primary. (V)
34. The Flemish media regulator plays, like for example Ofcom in the UK, a pioneer
on diversity and media literacy. Promotes and evaluates the commercial stations around the conduct of the VRM
a diversity policy and develop with them concrete objectives and instruments. (V)

SUBTITLING, audio-description and audio subtitling
35. Green wants as many programs as possible Flemish broadcasters have accessible
visual impairment. VRT is already largely achieved in terms
subtitles. Audio description is still little implemented. Flemish Sign Language is also only
in the beginning. (V)
36. The commercial Flemish broadcasters should continue to be supported to the closed captioning
to enhance hearing. (V)

REMOVING THE DIGITAL DIVIDE
37. We will make efforts to eliminate the digital divide. We believe that a comprehensive approach is needed
which not only puts the emphasis on ICT property, but also to the use of digital technologies. This approach allowed
do not focus solely on the financial aspects but also on the development of skills and
optimize the social environment. (V)
38. Green will guarantee an Internet connection as a basic right. That means this service
must be accessible and affordable for everyone. (F) (F)
283

39. We will encourage the use of free software, the handling and the use of digital technology
by facilitating a wider range of (accessible) courses. (F)
40. Due to the deepening and widening of the digital divide because they offer for these groups in all areas of life
a greater risk of exclusion. Flanders has a digital agenda needs to bridge the digital divide in all its
to seal different dimensions. So we need to make special efforts for people living in poverty and
other disadvantaged groups. There is a set of complementary efforts are needed that affect social, material,
financial and knowledge-related thresholds. This could order by examining the role that initiatives within social
Economics can play, by taking measures to ensure that children from families in
poverty at home on a computer at their disposal for the duration of their studies, by investing in
formation etc. (V)

OPEN NET
41. TOP TIPS such as Olympics, cycling classics, the Queen Elisabeth, the Tour de France
etc., must be accessible to the public and should therefore always be viewed in open net
be. They should not be exclusively offered on a pay-TV channel. (V)
42. In order to control the high cost of international sports rights, the Flemish television channels can work together.
They can acquire them at an affordable price rather than compete against each other. (V)

Media literacy
Media literacy means all citizens today and tomorrow put in a position to be aware, critical and active
move in an increasingly mediated society. This should strengthen the position of citizens in the society
and / or contribute to their personal well-being.
43. The policy will be developed, with priority for disadvantaged groups. We emphasize in this connection, the
role of education and civil society. (V)
44. The project "Newspapers in the Classroom" a media-educational reading promotion project also contributes to the strengthening
the critical sense to the readers (especially students in primary and secondary education). Green will this effect
continue to make it possible for every class and every school, and encourage all schools to participate. We
also underline the importance of child and youth news. (V)

WORKING ON THE PROFESSIONAL ETHICS OF JOURNALISTS
The Flemish Association of Journalists (VVJ) is the professional association of journalists. Within her is also the
(independent) Press Council operates. This council promotes journalistic ethics.
45. We will support the Council in order for the board itself and the statements it would be better known to
the big public. It can strengthen their impact on colleagues, publishers and the general public. We want to look
how civil society can be involved in the Council for Journalism. (V)

284

SPORT
VISION
It contributes to a more quality life. Playing Sports is fun and healthy.
Sports Watch is (un) exciting, resisting the spirit. Investing in young sporting talent
people of the same order as investing in scientific, economic or cultural
talent.

Sport is the biggest social movement in the world and has a positive power in it. Sport
possesses the power to build bridges between people of different backgrounds,
discrimination between men and women to eliminate, to promote peace, ...

The practice of sport in a group or association linked promotes social contact and is a
positive element in the development of the social fabric in the municipality. In addition,
sport brings people together, is relaxing and it's a good way to integration and
knowledge about different cultures. We want to encourage sports clubs and support for
them to play a role in the integration of socially disadvantaged or fighting
racism or homophobia.

Athletes, we also learn other skills: perseverance, learning to deal with
setbacks, physical skills, ...

These are also our priorities.
•

Promote sports in schools

•

The 'sport for all' encourage and support the sport

•

Strengthen the role of the government on sport

•

Diversity, sustainability and good governance stimulate

•

Individual sports and sports support in clubs

•

Improvement and sustainable sports infrastructure

•

They are discussed below.

PROPOSALS
SPORT AT SCHOOL PROMOTION
The school welcomes children and adolescents aged 3 to 18 years. It is the place for initiation in sport, exercise and healthy
behavior to be stimulated. Green wants to strengthen the role of the school in the field of sport and exercise. That is the school not
alone, but in collaboration with the BLOSO, sports federations and the local sports services and sports clubs.

MORE (TIME FOR) SPORT AT SCHOOL
1.

285

Currently sport occupies a relatively marginal position in the curriculum of students. Which is two
periods per week. There is still time shifting and time to change clothes from. Given the importance of
physical activity Green calls for the development of children and youth for an increase in the time
spent on physical education in the current schedule. That would be so in the kindergarten where the

focus on locomotion.

IMPROVING SPORT AND EQUIPMENT IN SCHOOLS
2.

3.

One of the obstacles to successful implementation of physical activities at school is often the
ditto inadequate sports infrastructure and equipment of schools, especially in rural areas. Do we want more
sports and stimulate movement in schools, it must be addressed that problem. Green suggests that the
schools together with the local sports services identify the problems, and that they work together to find
solutions, primarily through sharing and maximum use of municipal sports facilities and
sports facilities of other schools. Such an approach should rely on a limited
project grant from the Flemish government for infrastructural adjustments, improved equipment and
improved energy performance.
Swimming was one two decades ago to establish lesson of primary and secondary schools. By the
problems encountered pools and the increased cost for travel by the schools
to and from a pool, it deteriorates. Besides solving the problems pools (see below)
must also be invested in affordable travel for schools.

SPORTING TO SCHOOL
4.

In addition to the hours of physical education should also be deployed on the movements to and from the school.
Green wants to travel on foot and stimulate bicycle. That are sustainable and promote health.
The contextualizing policies should be intensified: good and safe cycling and walking paths, secure
school environments, good cycling infrastructure in school, secure bicycle parking, ...

TRIANGLE DEVELOPMENT CLUB, SCHOOL AND THE MUNICIPALITY +
Sports academy
5.

6.

7.

Because young people from the technical, artistic or vocational score significantly lower than for sport participation
their peers in the general secondary education, Green wants to focus on stimulating the
sports activities in school and in clubs at that audience.
We are advocates of the community school. More sport and culture gives scope for a wider deployment of
all talents. Both within school hours (curriculum) as after-school sport must be given a place, adapted to
the talent and enthusiasm of the student. The community school we want to give all children more opportunities
sport. It makes the school a linchpin in the village, neighborhood, or community event. Parents,
wellness centers, sports clubs and the sports are closely involved in school activities. Green put it on
way concrete and firmly on sport for all children from an early age.
There should initially more Follo teachers come (Flexible Assignment Teacher LO). Being
part-time jobs wharf back in the system of leave for assignment. The Follo-teacher organizes
after-school sports and tries to bridge the gap between the municipal sports, schools and
clubs in his region. The Follo's work in several municipalities within a given region, which
well above local partnerships are possible.

THE "SPORT FOR ALL" STIMULATE THE ONE SPORT SUPPORT
Sport for all and elite sport are no contradictions in the sports policy. They are perfectly complementary. Where they are
would live in the mind, we want to eliminate. They influence each other positively. When athletes from
country acme, encourages teens to practice any of these sports.
Conversely, the more people exercise, the greater the chance that arise from it potential athletes.
The playing field looks like a pyramid: a broad base and a small top. On the basis of the mass sports, topped the
athletes.

CHOOSE QUALITY AND VARIETY
8.

286

Sport has many faces and forms. One young player has talent and dreams of
top football. The other just wants to have fun. Some young people may be a bit bored with classical
sports, but feels more at home in new sports. Seniors want (thankfully) getting more exercise, alone
or in group cycling, jogging, or walking ... Young people live in a sportsmanlike out on a neighborhood field or on the grass plot
a local square. People with disabilities want to enjoy sports, recreational or competitive level. Which
diversity we want to make. More, we want to promote it. The sports policy should be possible
make everyone at his or her level to practice their favorite sport.

LIFELONG SPORTS
9.

There must be many people sports. Participation realize a set of efforts. It is so
important - the achievement of disadvantaged certain - that it belongs in all initiatives and decrees.
10. We want to encourage everyone to play sports and to enjoy sport for life.
11. With regard to the youth sports - youth sports is the main building block of any sports policy - you get the best
results by maximizing on the triangle clubs, schools and municipalities (sports services). In such a
policy you give all young people the opportunity not only to develop their best talent, but you stimulate everyone
to do sports.
12. We also want to stand up for participation among youth. There is still a major failure in the
group of teenagers. Usually they come back later not to sports. Therefore Green wants lifelong
promote sports. Sports stay healthy, a goal that is as important as working towards a
healthy environment.
13. Green wants better support for recreational sport. Everyone, young and old, with or without
Guests can participate in sport, whether in a club. Sports practice or in group
associational promotes social contact and is a positive element in the development of a social
tissue in the municipality. Sport is also an important driving force for integration.
14. Disadvantaged groups deserve special attention in the sports policy. Green wants the project Buurtsport 'powerful
continue. Besides the traditional club sport, the school-based sports and other contexts of sports, choose
community sports for the neighborhood, the neighborhood, the street be considered as context to offer sport. The operation also
the "community sports coaches' deserves a structural anchoring. Unfortunately, the Flemish government wants the bill
move on to the local governments. Green wants to import the gained expertise in mainstream clubs, with support
the Flemish government and local authorities. 'Sport in large cities (such as Short on Ball and Vecht and Dance)
establish links between urban (subordinated) children and youth and sports clubs should not be
stop put. This raises the fundamental problem of structural cooperation between two ministers (Youth
and Sport).

ACCESSIBLE SPORT
15. Sport must be accessible and affordable for everyone. Sports clubs often provide a lot of services at a
relatively low price. Nevertheless, especially for large families and people with low incomes, total
fees for sports often run high. Green does not want a high membership fees and other costs
an insurmountable financial barrier. Therefore we want to ensure that sport for all audiences
is affordable.

A COHERENT elite sport
16. Although a certain improvement noticeable, Belgium is on top sports area worse than comparable countries. Not
because there is no talent or no money. However, since the elite sport is too fragmented and because (most)
sport federations too little professional work. Professionalism in government and in sport management and coaching is urgently needed. We want the next minister of Sport as an absolute priority
of makes. This requires a coherent elite sport, where expertise is central. Perhaps this is the
best organized through a specialized agency, which is spaced apart from the politics and the
government. Be necessary to continue investing in athletes, but also in professional guidance, in
trainers, infrastructure, medical support, ...

SPORT AND SCHOOL
17. Topsportscholen are certainly worthwhile. They provide opportunities for talented young people to further
develop as an athlete. The results of the current elite sports schools improve steadily. It is the question
whether it is sustainable in a small country to maintain six elite sports schools or spread of sport on
several schools, especially in team sports. Furthermore, both the inflow (recruitment of the best
talents) and outflow (sporting level) are even better. The cooperation with the federations must
be strengthened, the level of the facilitators / trainers higher, and the sports science and -medical
improved guidance.
18. We want to develop an alternative system to the existing topsportschools. We base ourselves
on Dutch model of 'Loot School. On a LOOT school get top talents of 12 years the chance to
to combine their sports career with their school career. The schools fit for customizing for any athlete.
For the school, it is thereby the most important that the student gets a school certificate as possible. But that
it must be able to perform well and along with the development of their sports careers. The possible facilities
have a flexible schedule that leaves space for training and competition, (partial) exemption
certain subjects, postponement or reduction of homework, provisions for delays (caused by
287

absence from training and competition) including rural areas, accompanied by a LOOT attendant spread
exam over two school years.

SPORTS TELEVISION TO TURN TO SPORTS, AND THE OFFERING DIVERSE ENOUGH
IS ...
19. The public broadcaster pays attention to the very popular sports (football, cycling). Green wants
the attention to the smaller sports, which in recent years it has increased, remains sufficiently high.

STRENGTHENING GOVERNMENT FOR SPORT'S ROLE

A PERMANENT ROLE FOR PUBLIC
20. Even in difficult times, the government should continue to invest in sport. We can not just leave it to sports
the market. This can lead not only to a sporting impoverishment, but threatens the democratic access
sporting too difficult. The role of government in this field is therefore very necessary. Otherwise threatens sport
too be commercialized. The government must continue to allocate sufficient resources for a policy
on 'sport for all' and in the elite sport. It is sport technical innovation,
promoting participation, education and training, youth sports, sports in school, etc.

SETTING THE CENTRAL SPORTS CLUB
21.

Green believes the role of government in the sports policy should be primarily a facilitator, supporting what
bubbles up small and large initiatives. We do not want to market or supply-driven but demand-driven
policy.

A 'flanking' PUBLIC POLICY AT LOCAL LEVEL WITH PRIORITY FOR
INFRASTRUCTURE AND YOUTH SPORT
22. The government must ensure proper sports infrastructure, both for sports halls, swimming pools and for
outdoor sports fields. The vast majority of the sports infrastructure is the responsibility of the local
control. They are supported in this by the Flemish government through an investment fund that
intends to hold the investments of municipalities up to standard in terms of employment,
economy and quality of service,
23. This should be done as close as possible to the people, locally so. Therefore we believe in the strong
coordinating, supporting and stimulating role of the municipal sports. The further development
a hearty local sports policy is embedded for Green therefore the right choice.
24. The Flemish government has a supporting role on the second line, and can work with municipalities - or not
inter-municipal - and provincial infrastructure and development services (eg 50 meter swimming pool, velodrome,.
skating rink ...) which exceed the capacity of the municipalities. It's about the amenities that a public
Reaching far beyond the municipality.

Local sports - SPORT FOR ALL
Local sports policy has important effects: it is at the municipal level attention to sports policy, there is
systematics in the local policy, the director's role of the municipality is recognized, there is substantially more money for sport,
attention is paid to disadvantaged groups and more people are encouraged to exercise. Green supports these developments.
25. The recent introduction of the policy and management cycle in the municipalities, where no individual municipalities
sports policy should make more, but all the powers come together in a multi-year strategic
Policy, provides opportunities for local sports policy, but is not devoid of danger. For example, the
sports policy better linked to other policy areas, such as nature, culture, youth, etc. But deleting
of the sports policy and the qualitative and quantitative criteria in the Decree may cause the
Local authorities make savings in the operation, personnel, infrastructure, subsidies, etc. The
aftermath of the economic crisis can reinforce this negative trend. In other leisure sectors
this is already the case. Green will closely monitor and, if necessary, re-set criteria in the Decree in
the importance of local sports practice and policy.

SPORTS EVENTS and events
26. Supporting such events is situated today, particularly in large and popular
sports disciplines like cycling. In a good sports climate also includes sport activities for our
athletes. Green wants the policy partly refocus. The (sport) quality is obviously important but
288

emphasis on the appearance of Flanders "is not so important to us. The sport event should be a
his internationally. However, Green wants more emphasis on sports disciplines that are less commercial
have potential, and therefore are more difficult to acquire the necessary funds. In organizing
events we want to pay more attention to all aspects of sustainability.

ALSO SPORT IN THE CULTURAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE FLANDERS
AND THE FRENCH COMMUNITY
27. Green proposes to include a hatch 'sport' in this agreement. It should form the basis of intense consultation
between the relevant governments, their agencies, and subsidized sports players such as the
sports federations, the doping agencies, etc. The intention should be policies to match each other
function of an effective policy on mass sport and elite sport, coordinated framing policy
sports infrastructure, doping control, candidacy for European or world championships, consultation
between sports federations of communities, a joint discussion table in order to prepare
international selections for competitions (with the BOIC), sharing of specialized infrastructure,
etc.

SPORT CUPOLAS (UPPER)
28. A good superstructure (organizations on the second line) is necessary. It is the Flemish Institute
Sport Management and Recreation Policy vzw (ISB), a member association and knowledge center for local and regional
sports and leisure, and the Flemish Sports Federation vzw (VSF), the umbrella organization of 86 recognized and
subsidized Flemish combines sports federations in Flanders. The ISB and VSF support sectors
conduct research, reflection, quality promotion and coordination. They are a catalyst between policy and
field (artist, organization, association ...), between universities and public, between information and education,
between government and practice, between the society and the sport practice. Scientific and policy
Research done. There is continuity in the support required.

DIVERSITY, SUSTAINABILITY AND PROMOTING GOOD GOVERNANCE
Three dimensions of sport come together here. We want to encourage the ethnic and cultural diversity in the sport.
Sport promotes tolerance and integration. In addition, durable sports in sustainable infrastructure not only
good for the health of the athlete, but for everyone. Both dimensions require good governance, clubs,
federations, sports services and all authorities.

PROMOTING DIVERSITY
29. We want to give incentives to increase the diversity: on boards, staff composition, ...
clubs and federations, etc. We want to work with stakeholders to a range of new methods
develop and encourage federations to make diversity in which targets are posited.

SUSTAINABLE sports policy
For Green, the wide sports movement must be a full participant of sustainable development. The concept
sustainable development must be given a place in the wide world of sports, in business, infrastructure and
sports events. Sustainable development, the third pillar would be of the Olympic Movement, alongside sport
and culture.
30. Both in terms of content (sports engineering) and the infrastructure we go for sustainability, for
embedding, aftercare (of projects), and continuity of care. Green wants to Flanders green
sports infrastructure plan with the objective to seriously reduce the overall CO2 emissions. New buildings
renovation must meet strict energy performance standards and attention is paid to ecological design and
materials, and this should be encouraged through subsidies. Is within the Flemish government for this purpose
expertise unit 'Transition in the Leisure Sector' was established. By analogy with the arts sector can experience here
be shared in order to come up sport in a post-fossil context.
31. In order to minimize the footprint of the sport, Green suggests that the sports movement and governments
encourage them to integrate sustainable development in the long-term choices that are made. It's about
the organization of regional, national and international sporting events, design and production
sports facilities, the aspect of energy and water, the quality of sports infrastructure, the
Mobility from and to sports and training, the use of recyclable materials, promoting
public transport, etc. This can also be considered the slow reduction of sports that a
heavy impact with regard to energy and the environment. Think of Formula 1, rallying, jet ski,
289

motocross and other (cfr. paragraph 60).
32. The selection of the locations of major sporting events must be done carefully. There is controversy surrounding the
arrival of the Olympic Games or world championships (Sochi Winter Games, World Cup in Qatar ...) in
countries that violate human rights, which treat their employees humiliating that infrastructure
build at the expense of people and the environment, ... Major sporting events are also regularly used for
political purposes. Green thinks that the criteria on respect of human rights, social rights and
environmental rights must weigh heavily in the selection of the host countries and cities of major events.
Green wants to work here through parliament partly on roads so that our representatives in international
federations are supported here.

SUSTAINABLE POOLS
33. Most of our pools are in poor condition or have already closed their doors. The cost of
maintenance and operation are too high for the municipalities which they administer. They are also all
energy wasters. Apart from the necessary renovations, this situation should create the opportunity to really make a
durable pool plan to come in consultation between the municipalities, Flanders and the provinces. It must be the
ambition to come to the creation of energy efficient public pools.

OPEN SPACE AS THE BASIS FOR SPORTS RECREATION
34. More space for sports also means more green and open space and safe roads to unconcernedly
walking, running, biking, ... We want more nature and forest, an accessible urban forest within cycling distance of each
Flemish town, and right on by greenery for everyone. Rural roads, towpaths, nature, forest and parks are
terrain suited for soft recreation like walking, hiking or cycling.

SPORT AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
35. Sport has a major impact on society. By selecting 'broad professional sports clubs ", we can
sport clubs and athletes play their full role in society. We want balanced, thematic
partnerships between the sports world and the Flemish government to stimulate the areas of social inclusion,
health, environment, mobility, work, sports, ... where man and neighborhood better off. We support actions as
De Football + Foundation. It encourages the Belgian football in its social commitment and the
communicated. She works together with partners in society: governments, organizations and
companies.
36. supporters' federations are important. Ticket prices, accessibility from the stadiums to supporters with
disabilities, maximum participation by the supporters, comfort and safety and smooth communication
with the supporters here are the ongoing concerns.

ETHICAL AND PROMOTE HEALTHY SPORTS
37. Healthy sports is sports in conditions that are consistent with a person's physical, psychological and
social wellbeing. Ethical sports refers to the preservation and promotion of individual integrity
(physical, psychological and sexual), fair play and social integrity (solidarity, diversity and inclusion). Green wants
These guidelines further develop together with the sports organizations themselves. It involves a variety of themes
such as good governance, transgressive behavior, the protection of the minor athlete and so on.
Special attention is risk martial arts. The Flemish government the accumulated expertise should be spacious
disseminate and make available. Preventive actions, educational framework of clubs, it is necessary
basic conditions. Top athletes have an important role model.
38. Green believes that doping must be combated. The guideline for this is the WADA code
World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA), the World Anti-Doping Agency. It is an independent organization,
incorporated and governed by the IOC. We advocate a balance between amateur and professional sport,
between controls within and out of competition. Besides the sport, the attention of the Flemish government
also be paid to risk sports such as bodybuilding, power sports, etc.
39. Green wants a joint secretariat of the anti-doping agencies of the Flemish and French
Community set up, in order to enforce a uniform application of the regulations, in
particularly in Brussels, which still pose problems.
40. The safety of the athletes at risk sports deserves more attention and appropriate action. A number of
After all, martial arts happen in an uncontrolled environment.

Excesses in SPORT FIGHTING (TAX AND SOCIAL SECURITY)
41. All clubs and players in the Belgian first division soccer annually enjoy 67 million euros in taxes Social Security benefits. Prof Athletes can rely on the specific nature of their appeal to a special tax
290

scheme. While a normal 38 percent employee contribution to the National Social Security
(NSSO) is deducted from the wages by professional athletes is limited to 678 euro per month. Also on the
terms of withholding enjoy the sports clubs a significant advantage. Average deposit an
employer about 40 percent of the wages of its workers due to the Treasury. Sports clubs may
eighty percent of which are income for themselves. Sports clubs, eg. From the volleyball and basketball,
enjoy these benefits. Green wants to abolish the regime applicable to the social security and taxation.

VOLUNTEERS AND SPORTS LEADERS APPRECIATE
Sports clubs and volunteering, they are inextricably linked. Yet it appears that more than half of the sports clubs
suffers from a shortage of volunteers. Sensitization benefit of volunteering is more than ever
necessary. And for sports coaches (coaches, officials ...) there is need for an appropriate status.
42. We want to support all efforts to facilitate voluntary work and keep comfortable. The vzwwetgeving and vrijwilligerswet deserve special attention.
43. The many organizations need more space for the thousands of volunteers to cope better,
support and guidance. The Flemish government should act as a facilitator. It ensures that there
creating a volunteer-friendly environment by taking measures that the efforts and commitment
encourage. They will screen their own regulations on possible negative effects on the voluntary sector.
44. The law on voluntary work is under constant pressure to adapt the compensation rules. This is
detrimental to the basic framework of volunteering. We insist that there is no further erosion of this
rules. Green therefore not advocating an increase in the ceilings for the voluntary fee. Discussions
over a number of applications in the semi-agoral sphere must be outside the context of the vrijwilligerswet
lined. Semi-agoral labor is not a full-time job but more than volunteering; there is a fee
However, no pay may be mentioned, eg. trainers are compensated so. Green is correct and
proper remuneration of sports coaches and a uniform status. Who gets up there, social needs
rights to build, but we also advocate an appropriate approach to undeclared work through a modified
tax regime with a levy, as in copyright. A single tax
taxation of 15% many problems to solve.
45. The authorities investigating a widening of the collective insurance for volunteers, especially for the
arrange director liability.

INDIVIDUAL SPORTS AND SPORTS CLUB CONNECTION SUPPORT
At the policy we want to leave that which lives in the clubs, informal associations of people together
sports, the individual needs of athletes (eg. joggers or cyclists), thus giving priority to regular operation.

QUALITY GUARANTEE
46. ​​The quality of the sports in the sports clubs should continue to improve. Currently have much to
many clubs do not have qualified trainers if they have insufficient. The government must continue here
introduce an incentive policy to optimize the sport kaderopleiding. Trainers and sports coaches
should be encouraged to follow sport kaderopleiding both initiation and additional training.
It is also crucial that a customized offer is available to ensure that as many
supervisors at least have some basic skills, and the training is not limited to a
limited part of the (top) trainers. The Flemish Trainer School, an initiative of the sports federations, Bloso
and the universities and colleges should therefore be strengthened. There may also be more focus
pedagogical aspects, especially for youth coaches.

Sports federations: MORE ATTENTION TO YOUTH SPORT AND
TOPSPORT GUIDANCE
Sports federations are recognized and subsidized by decree. They offer a sport on the sports disciplines list. There are
unisportfederaties and recreational sports federations.
47. Green believes that the optional command 'youth sports' best would be a mandatory assignment. The grants
this can be increased to fill with success in this mission. In addition, we wish it
decree
on
the
Sports federations
Lake
accent
explains
on:
° kaderopleiding and training for the sport technical manager of the unisportfederatie and
affiliated clubs;
° a professional supervision of athletes affiliated to the federation. The Sports Action Plan
Flanders must provide the framework for and the necessary support.
291

48. Recreational sports federations are important partners in the deployment of lifelong sports (and
move). Green advocates more cooperation between the competition-oriented clubs (and federations) and
recreational federations. Thus failure of athletes can be prevented. Not everyone can or wants to
practicing competitive sports.

BIGGER SPORTS CLUBS (OR CLUSTERS OF CLUBS)
49. Efforts should be made to larger clubs (or cluster of clubs) without geographical spread
of these sports the victim. The sports federations and municipalities should
encouraging partnerships between sport clubs at the local level. Which corresponds to the necessity
of flow of talented athletes, it can also lead to more efficient use of people and
resources, provide valuable interdisciplinary exchange of expertise (trainers) and versatility
(young) promoting athletes. In this manner, can also be made to a certain degree of
professionalism by deploying professionals in clusters of clubs.

WIDER SPORTS CLUBS
50. Research by Prof. Jeroen Shearer shows that the popularity of sport clubs. Fewer and fewer children and
youths practice their sport in a club. Although still a little more than half of them the way to the
Sports Club, it is clear that more and more children and young people enjoy their sport elsewhere. At
adults, the number of athletes club slightly, but this increase is relatively small compared to the
general increase in sports participation. Sports in light organizations - with a group of friends
For example - is clearly on the rise in adults. Especially in women, the highly educated and those with
high income is light sport popular. Think of newcomers among the most popular sports disciplines such as zumba,
spinning, rope skipping, circus techniques, etc. There is also a rise of solo sports.
51. Green will work with the clubs examine how action can be taken to both the leisure
sportsman, at both young and old, a stronger place in the clubs and on the other alternative forms of
promoting sporting activity (sport light). The Flemish legislation on the sports federations can be a hatch or
contain module. Within local sports policy should be that one of the priorities set by the Flemish government
postulates. In this manner, also the local sports services are concerned, what is necessary.

INDIVIDUAL SPORTS AND OTHER organizational APPRECIATE
52. People who exercise often do so in different organizational forms than the club. They put together all kinds
informal relationships on. We are convinced that the local sports services bandaging up
Life chances should offer. They are not real sports clubs, they usually require no subsidy, but they
support the objective of the lifelong sports. Sports services can facilitate these linkages,
support through the provision of infrastructure, offering an affordable
sports insurance, through the expansion of Finnish ski slopes, mountain bike trails, ...
53. Flemish officials get an exemption of one hour per week to exercise. There is good use of
created. We propose to take on similar arrangements in sectoral collective agreements in favor of the under
Health at work.
54. We call for in the sphere of tourism to promote opportunities to play sports. There would for
tourists as people who stay at youth hostels, hotels, etc., more opportunities should exist
to sports are. The Flemish government could through the Bloso, together with the municipalities, a campaign
set up to improve cooperation between tourism operators and operators of sports infrastructure to
strengthen.

IMPROVE THE SPORT

AN EFFICIENT USE OF SPORT AND MORE
Research shows that there is still a serious shortage of sports facilities (sports halls, outdoor areas and
swimming pools). Green wants more space for sports: not only adequate sports infrastructure, but also and more green
open space and safe roads to walk carefree, running, biking, ... There is a need for more effective
and better infrastructure.
55. We are critical of the increase in the construction and operation of sports facilities via a PPP method
(Public Private Partnership). The private partner is responsible for design, construction, financing, maintenance and
sometimes exploitation of the infrastructure. The local authorities pay the private partner a
"availability fee" in exchange for the use of infrastructure. Green does not support the
used method of debudgeting. Financial uncertainty arises for the local government, doubts
the sustainable character of the infrastructure, the architectural quality ... And what if a private partner
292

operates? Who guarantees than achievable rents for clubs and affordable tickets in the pool?
56. Sports infrastructure in schools or companies located outside the hours often unused. Green wants to schools and
encourage businesses to establish their infrastructure to the public. The government can do so financial
provide incentives (eg. exemption from property tax), and provide insurance for claims.
Subsidy for construction or renovation work can be linked to obligatory opening for other
users. A more efficient use of existing sports infrastructure can be a part of the demand for
additional sports infrastructure catch.
57. The new Flemish Government will have to develop a plan to pool global infrastructure to
suits. Many baths are outdated and no longer meet the standards, the operating run on a
some baths are closed, the energy performance is problematic, etc. while demand for swimming
remains high. The municipalities can often no longer alone. Green wants to contribute to a global approach.
58. The Brussels-Capital Region may establish sports infrastructure for green initiatives. Such
Plans are best developed in consultation with the communities, which are also responsible for the operation.
The municipalities are also involved.

NEW FOOTBALL PITCHES?
59. Many football clubs have been asking for a new stadium. Green acknowledges the need for better
infrastructure, but wants the sustainable nature of the investment is guaranteed. Infrastructure
custom should be the clubs that play there, and can last long enough. Green chooses ecological
sound (choice of materials, energy, ...), accessible (not only car-friendly mobility) and
family-friendly football stadiums. Stadiums should not be a lubricant for spatial irresponsible
projects. And renovation of existing stadiums is a realistic option, which is preferred. A
multipurpose use is the preferred spatial justified.

MOTOR SPORTS
60. Now for the harder forms of recreation should be a place sought. However, there must be a good
balance must be struck so that the disruptive effect which these forms of recreation so hard
is minimal as possible. They can be practiced only in demarcated areas where damage to nature and
nuisance to local residents is minimal. So we keep practicing these sports in nature permanently.
We are talking about sports such as water skiing, motocross, clay shooting ... In motorsports, we need alternative
stimulation techniques, such as electric motors. Rallying, especially in open space and near valuable
nature is and remains very disruptive. Noise, damage and disruption of nature, frequent accidents,
pollution ... it necessary to impose the rallying stricter rules so that these effects as much as possible
be avoided.

SPORTS IN OPEN WATER PROMOTION
61. Sports which are water, have the wind in their sails. We refer here particularly on sporting activities in
open water (rowing, canoeing, sailing, swimming, windsurfing, triathlon ...). The needs for the competition sport run parallel
this of anyone who practices a water-sport, both at a high level, a lower level
as a recreational level. The efforts also benefit the tourism and recreation. In addition,
as a function of these sports activities invested in the improvement of the quality of the
surface water. Green wants to work on this because of the ecological and sporting goals. There
The need for an inventory of undeveloped areas, canals, ponds and places with
potential for (waterborne) sport activities, resulting in a long-term plan for its realization.
An effort of several municipalities, the province and with the support of the Flemish
Community should make possible realizations.
62. Green wants to amend the regulations governing the sports in open water. Seize today
Mayors quickly to a ban on the use of open water swimming, rowing, sailing, because the ...
responsibility lies with accidents in local government. We want the use of open water up
permit and promote, unless there are serious indications of danger or obvious health risks. Than
local government can still intervene. Green wants to stimulate the realization of swimming pools in this context.
63. windsurfing on the coast, like the practice of water sports (kite surfing, swimming, diving ...)
deserves a positive image. It should be facilitated by the government in collaboration the clubs, including
by the display of a number of defined areas.

293

EUROPE AND THE WORLD
TOWARDS A SOCIAL AND ECOLOGICAL FAIR
EUROPE
VISION
Anno 2014 Europe is in a paradoxical situation. The current European Union is both
a problem as the solution. The euro crisis has demonstrated that a European political,
they needed the democratic structure beside the national and local level. Europe
increasingly the solution, such as the development of the European banking union with stronger
monitoring and intervention mechanisms demonstrates.

However, the unfinished political and socio-economic foundation under the euro,
unhinged world of finance and a lack of coherent social and fiscal policies
European level, that the EU is facing growing fundamental problems. So much
that even the legitimacy in more countries openly questioned by
political parties. There are even to slow down European integration or
cutting back. That's not a good idea. Climate change, the financial and economic
systemic crisis, environmental pollution, terrorism, migration and globalization do not stop at the
borders. More national laws and regulations alone do not help this type
to tackle cross-border problems.

Green sees significant challenges for Europe. We put political integration further on
condition of strengthening the EU's democratic content. This is possible by yet
give more powers to the European parliament, possibly supplemented by an
European senate direct delegations from national parliaments. The Union evolves
for a more inclusive Europe that offers social protection to its citizens and which does not degrade.
Green wants European-wide transition to a low-carbon Europe, as much as possible
energy produces itself and thus to a more sustainable society with strict,
enforceable standards and own a budget for targeted border
infrastructure investments. We go for a united Europe that has the look as a global player
out targets and as much as possible with one voice in a globalized world.

PROPOSALS
POLITICAL INTEGRATION
Green leaves evolve further political integration in the direction of a federation of sovereign states. The Commision
is there a European government, controlled by the Parliament that individual commissioners to
accountability calls and, if necessary, can send away, and a Board Member. This federation we build
step by step together with the Member States, with more and times when citizens can express their views. An evaporation
Member States is not on our agenda. In the short term we slim down the Commission.
A necessary precondition for the European federation to work properly is the politicization of Europe and the
'Europeanisation' of politics. It should be clearly in the EU institutions everyday political choices
are made by politicians with a particular ideology and so that citizens do have a choice.
Fundamental differences are best visible, instead of being made invisible under a
European blue flag with stars. Must be built on a European political space and the electoral system
294

is adjusted in this direction. Therefore, it is essential that the new European Parliament immediately after the European
Elections start organizing a European convention, in which all citizens and interest groups
European Member States can also decide on a few basic options for the EU after 2020.
1. In the long term, Europe needs a government with European ministers and European powers. A first
step is that slims the current European Commission to accept a lesser role as commissioners
government. Therefore there is a stricter accountability of Commissioners to the European
parliament.
2. We limit the power of the Council. The members of the Council are not democratic nor Europe-wide
elected. They can therefore also not be "voted out". But their decisions have a lot of impact on the
citizens. This democratic deficit, we work out the world. Legislative power is exercised by a
European Parliament and the Council of Member States (similar to a senate). This is the political bond
strengthening between Member States and the EU and more visible.
3.

We go to a European constitution that limits itself to the core values ​​and objectives of the Union, and the
ground lines contains symbols and institutional rules. The Constitution anchors also civil rights, including
social rights, and ensuring environmental sustainability. Such a constitution created by a democratic,
European and transparent process and is legitimized by Europe-wide referendums. That takes time. The
Lisbon Treaty that process was in a first step. In the upcoming legislative period, the European launch
Parliament with the launch of a new European convention, in which citizens and civil
society will have an important voice.

4.

In addition to the current 751 MEPs, 25 extra MPs are elected on a European
electoral list in a Europe-wide electoral constituency, as proposed in a report by the European Duff
parliament. Citizens can then vote for candidates that represent the whole of the Union, rather than
only candidates from their national or local constituency. This is a first step towards a European political
space. Gradually this European electoral list will be expanded. The party leaders of those lists will compete for the
Presidency of the European Commission.

5.

To make the catch on the integration of the engine again, we put the enhanced cooperation. That
means that some Member States may introduce certain measures, jointly, even though there is no absolute
majority, as happened around the financial transaction tax (FTT). The Amsterdam Treaty created
that opportunity already. We want closer cooperation on a much more systematic and thorough way
handle.
Initially, a group of like-minded countries systematically take advantage of the opportunities
are provided in the treaty texts for enhanced cooperation. In the second instance can the group
deepen integration in a parent treaty. The condition is to achieve a wide integration at
in terms of social, fiscal, environmental and foreign policy. The integration model is similar to that of
the euro, which also do not belong to all 28 Member States.

6.

7.

This choice to join or not to this enhanced cooperation can not be based on the
Membership of the eurozone, but the will to share sovereignty and common roads to
Europe's future shape.

8.

In order to consolidate the euro without causing social harm, we advocate the creation of a
fiscal union for the eurozone which countries manage their tax receipts together,
where the socio-economic indicators are indicative.

9.

Green is in favor of introducing Eurobonds (bonds issued joint
account of all countries of the euro area), which will stabilize the European sovereign debt market, lower
create playable by financial markets more liquid. It should also be clear conditions for
participation be set in terms of national budgetary discipline and there must be a thorough and independent
control and democratic scrutiny over come.

MORE DEMOCRACY FOR A EUROPE CLOSER TO THE CITIZEN
At the moment, the epicenter of the European decision-making at the European Council. Politicians like Merkel and Hollande
are therefore 'Belgian' politicians, although the Belgians are not accountable for their political choices them. Moreover
the only democratically elected body became the European Parliament in tackling the euro crisis largely
put out of the game. To avoid repetition of this scenario, and to strengthen the democratic Europe,
Green leaves shift power to parliament. We give parliament resources and tools for policy
making in those areas that are important to the citizens: social protection, energy, climate change, migration,
Europe's place on the international stage, and the fight against crime and terrorism.
295

10. On the basis of the election results, the European Parliament decides who the new chairman of the
European Commission.
11. The European Parliament also elects the EU president. Which combines the presidency of the European
Commission and the European Council.
12. No European law can be adopted without the approval of the European Parliament.
13. We advocate strengthening the initiative of the European Parliament. It should be empowered
have to submit legislative proposals and to take decisions under the co-decision procedure
all areas where it now has only advisory powers, particularly economic governance, migration,
fiscal, budgetary affairs, foreign and security policy.
14. The ratification powers of the European parliament be expanded.
15. The European Parliament will receive the formal right to individual Commissioners to account for
call, to appoint and dismiss.
16. The European Parliament chooses to develop its activities exclusively in the Brussels office. The
monthly move to Strasbourg is wasteful, unnecessary requires a lot of energy and is expensive. The seat in
Strasbourg is closed.
17. The European Parliament will have the last word on important appointments such as that of directors
of the European Central Bank and a selected group of MEPs will democratic participation
and oversight functions in the functioning of the ECB.
18. We extend the jurisdiction of the European Court of Justice and improve legal access to the Court
for civil society organizations.
19. A transparent procedure limited the informal compromise between Council and European
parliament to a minimum. Documents for trilogues (consultation between Council, Commission and Parliament)
and conciliaties (meetings of the Conciliation Committee of the European Parliament and of the Council)
public.
20. We extend the consultation of civil society by the European institutions. So must
the European Economic and Social Committee which annually accounts for 170 reports and policy advice to the
Parliament and the Commission shall be heard. The Committee unites civil society's voice. Were so
their members, which are also among unions and employers domes, barely involved in the plan of Barroso
against youth unemployment. Consultation between social partners at European level should be an integral part
be in shaping the legislative direction of the EU.
21. The European Citizens' Initiative is a step in the right direction to a formalized and direct participation
to encourage citizens in the decision making process. Pains of the European citizens are
corrected. The European Commission offers better digital facilities to promoters. Initiatives aimed at
Treaty changes are allowed.
22. The European Act on Open Government, we extend to all EU institutions. An active
disclosure of documents is the rule. The exemptions that allow secrecy,
be restricted.
23. We carry the right to vote in over 16 years.
24. To get a larger number of women in the Commission, slide each Member State authorized a Commissioner
nominate two candidates forward, including a woman.
25. We extend voting rights for EU citizens residing for a certain period in another EU country
the current voting rights for local and European elections for all other levels (provincial, regional,
national elections).
26. The EU Charter of Fundamental Rights is an integral part of the European treaties.
27. Europe is looking actively at internal democracy in its member states and occurs in the event of serious
breaches of human rights and freedom of expression as enshrined in Article 6 of the Convention
Lisbon. Green installs a European watchdog for fundamental freedoms which the European
Commission can intervene quickly in contravention of Article 6.
28. The EU creates maximum transparency when negotiating international trade agreements. Documents
which shares the European Commission in public with interest. Concept Treaties, intermediate and
final texts and other negotiating texts after each round of negotiations made public.
29. We advocate a mandatory public register for lobbyists in the European institutions, including
law firms, which specifies who their clients are and how much they pay. It shall be prohibited to
interviews with unregistered lobbyists. The European Parliament pursues a 'legislative footprint' in,
whereby the competent Member of Parliament mentions a report or bill with which lobbyists
spoken.
30. The European Commission accounts for consultations that have preceded
policy proposals: which lobbyists have provided input, and what happened with that input? That increases
296

transparency of decision making. It also fulfills the commitment to the influence of business lobbies in
reduce conclusion of legislative proposals by their presence in the technical advisory
limit of the European Commission.

SOCIAL EUROPE IN THE ECOLOGICAL AND TAX IS RIGHTEOUS
To regain the confidence of its citizens, Europe must protect its citizens. Europe can and should be much
exceed consumer and balanced budgets. Green is a collaboration that goes
then currency or market. A social union, which again drives the poverty in its member states and the employment rate to rise,
that's what we stand for.
31. We seek a shift from one-sided austerity to socially just and sustainable structural
reforms and investments. The greening of the energy, transport and production infrastructures,
strengthening social cohesion, education, research and green innovation, reducing social
inequality and the restoration of natural resources pose a way out of the crisis. That social and
environmental agenda to implement a treaty change is needed.
32. The Lisbon Treaty is substantively revised to harmonize fiscal policies
strengthen. So we call a halt to tax competition within the EU. After that review, we take
guidelines on taxation by qualified majority instead of unanimity. This should lead to
the progressive harmonization of tax policy at companies in the financial sector and more generally on
energy and raw materials. Such harmonization will introduce effective minimum rates across the Union (tax
remaining after granting tax benefits) and will facilitate the fight against tax fraud. If
we need to start with a "coalition of the willing" as was previously the case with the financial
Transaction Tax.
33. The purpose of amending serves a socio-environmental agenda. The European Union is a promoter
welfare and social and environmental justice. To this end, the Union is evolving into a real social pact, a
common area of ​​social security and solidarity. This means common social
minimum standards in terms of wages, pensions, unemployment benefits and coverage of the
health, in short, the guarantee of a minimum level of social protection for all Europeans.
We develop common instruments to fight poverty and ensure stronger and
accessible public services.
34. Procedurally, the treaty change is done through a parliamentary convention which includes representatives
the newly elected European Parliament and the national parliaments. Green does not accept that a
IGC behind closed doors makes the decisions. By the way, in the
Treaty changes we involve civil society, social partners and citizens. Each floor of the
integration with Europe gets more powers, should be accompanied with more rights for the parliaments,
both at national and European level to participate in decisions and to monitor the executive on their
level. The public must also from extensive public debate and innovative direct democratic processes
involved.
35. Green is in favor of a revision of the 2020 framework. This is a growth strategy of the EU to a
smart, to build sustainable and inclusive economy by 2020. In this context, the need for social (eg.
reducing inequality) and environmental (eg. reduction in resource use) objectives
are recorded, creating a more balanced sustainable development can be pursued.
Aspects of sustainability, such as resource utilization and inequality should carry more weight in 2020
agenda.
36. We greening the European Semester. In reporting by the Member States and the recommendations of the
Member States, the union structural attention to concrete objectives in terms of phasing out
environmentally harmful subsidies, transforming the tax system towards a green tax, etc. Around this
matters are included concrete objectives in the national reform programs. Inside the
Committee on the Environment Commissioner partly responsible for the European Semester.
37. The preparation of the reform program are the national and regional ministers for the environment and
Sustainable Development explicitly involved. These national and sub-national reform programs
be submitted annually in the spring by the Member States and give the progress on goals
on innovation, sustainability and social justice.
38. Europe is leading an ambitious and legally binding energy and climate policy. The European
Union should take a leading role in energy use and greenhouse gas emissions drastically
reduce and realize the transition to renewable energy sources. In recent years, Europe seems her
However unleash leadership position in this area. The weak climate targets for 2030 set by the European
Committee suggested recently (but still must be approved by the Member States) are downright
297

disappointing: 40% less CO2 emissions than in 1990 and a 27% share of renewable energy in the
overall European energy mix. For energy conservation targets were no longer presented.
Green continues to fight for an ambitious EU climate and energy package in 2030 with three
objectives to be translated into binding national targets:
•
60% less CO2 emissions relative to 1990
•
45% of renewable energy in overall energy consumption
•
40% energy savings
39. Along with other European Green Parties Green wants to work on a European
Renewable energy. The objective of ERENE (European Community for Renewable Energy) is an
achieving sustainable energy in Europe and to make Europe independent of fossil
fuels and uranium. We want to geographical, climatic and hydrological diversity
Europe to maximize the green energy to make a lot cheaper. The Central West European countries (Benelux, France and Germany) should play a pioneering role in this.

OWN BUDGET FOR THE UNION
The union can only live up to the growing expectations if they have sufficient own resources. That is also
as established at the start of the integration process. Green wants to fast-track it. A system of its own
resources is more democratic and allows the union responsible for revenues and expenditures. The union then becomes a
'Mature' political level. And above all, it gives the union the possibility of general European interest first
set.
40. Parliament, Council and Commission agree that negotiated at the budget negotiations to the inside
three years a proposal to develop around its own resources. This is to the national contributions of Member States to print
construct and replaced by the own European revenues. And that's an important step in the right direction. The
European Commission among others asked for a financial transaction tax. That proposal we endorse.
41. In order to generate own resources, we carry on a European scale the bill fly in, a kilometer charge on
fly transport so.
42. The European budget to run more on own resources, which we increase the VAT contribution
Member States by dumping to the union. The current ceiling of 0.3% of the taxable VAT base which each
Member States must be abolished by dumping to the EU. We are also moving away from the whopping 41 exceptions
which undermine the credibility and fairness of the system by the percentage of by
deposit amount to enable the same for all countries. The few social corrections thereby disappear
offset by increased solidarity in the expenditure of the European level.
43. The European Investment Bank provides project bonds to finance projects of common interest,
such as infrastructure, renewable energy, common tools in the fight against poverty, etc. These
resources are additional to the EU budget.

EXPANSION AND NEIGHBOURHOOD
No world power had so much influence on its borders as the European Union over the last twenty years.
Since the fall of the Berlin Wall, 16 new countries joined the EU and in a profound way Europe
transformed, including ethnic conflicts to curb, to export the rule of law and economies
Baltic to the Balkans to lift rapidly to a higher level. EU accession we see as a
engine of democracy, human rights, social rights and environmental justice.
44. As regards the accession of Turkey and the countries of the Western Balkans, the EU abides by the promise
they can join once they meet the accession criteria. In negotiations with
Turkey, the European Commission's emphasis on democratization, respect for human rights - in the
especially for LGBT people - and a peaceful solution to the Kurdish population of the country and for the
Cypriot issue.
45. As part of the initiated negotiations on Serbia's accession to the union, the EU needs the land
There incite to recognize Kosovo. The High Representative should encourage both further
to politically and economically to work in line with the agreement of April 19, 2013 and other
calls.
46. ​​Although the population of Iceland still reluctant attitude towards EU accession, Green supports
application for accession in 2009 on the condition that the country's worldwide ban on whaling
respects.

298

47. The EU should work through active diplomacy for the reunification of Cyprus as High
Representative Catherine Ashton did so with extremely difficult issues such as the nuclear deal in Iran or
the rapprochement between Kosovo and Serbia. European diplomacy can indeed achieve success in decades-old conflicts.
48. The enlargement of the EU acting in accordance with the Greens to conflict prevention. But to be credible externally
the EU should also watch tightly on the respect of fundamental rights in social policy and in
environmental policy. Member States should therefore also respected after their accession to those rights. As the severe
situation in Hungary shows, it is imperative that the EU imposes a greater leadership on the day.

STRENGTHENING THE EUROPEAN ROLE IN THE WORLD
Europe wants to play a significant role on a global scale, it must be a strong Union come out and gaze
outwards. The coordination of foreign policy is thereby paramount; the union speaks with one voice best. The
integration of defense will be further developed during the next legislative session. The emphasis is on conflict prevention and
"Soft power".
For Green, the union may best show more ambition to become a global actor that weighs on international fora
such as climate negotiations.
European trade policy can be a powerful lever for sustainability, social protection and human rights
the rest of the world, provided that the free trade dogma is released as the main guide, and that the focus
will be on social and human issues. Not maximization of European exports is the priority, but a
good reflection on determining what and how is being exported. Trade policy should lead to a green economy
based on an efficiency model that takes into account physical and planetary limits.
49. The priorities of the European External Action Service (EEAS) are in conflict prevention, crisis
management and post-conflict management. This service is flanked with strong leadership
High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. The department liaises with the national
diplomatic services. While these everyday tasks take on, put the EEAS and the High
Representative concentrated on developing strategic perspectives and vision development
medium and long term. Through their presence and influence in international forums they have a great
value and deserve a greater role.
50. In order for the EU to develop a long term strategy and united leadership can show in terms of
foreign policy, we are expanding the portfolio of the High Representative in. This will thereby
control over the enlargement policy, trade, energy and development, areas that continue to
powers belong to the Commission.
51. In the foreign policy decision-majority rule and the unanimity disappears. In each case
should be avoided that a single Member State initiatives thwarts. In this regard, the concept of
"Constructive abstention" to be developed.
52. The EU is seeking a seat on the Security Council, rather than the British and French seats. In a manner of
step between the High Representative spoke on behalf of the EU when its Member States are jointly
have position.
53. European Civil Peace Corps is coming rapidly deployable experts specializing in crisis prevention
and sustainable peace.
54. Green strengthens the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe. His predecessor had a
important role in overcoming the Cold War, but today we need a better
relations with Russia, not least to the military tensions between NATO and Russia
soften and to achieve disarmament.
55. The reinforcement of cooperation between Member States on human rights and consistent with made
the policy of the union. Greater involvement of civil society and greater transparency are crucial. Green
slides impact analyzes of the policy forward and wants companies that human rights violations
committed outside the EU's borders be held responsible. The EU Special Representative
Human Rights carries out its mandate in the broadest sense of the word.
56. Europe is working on the integration of defense. Between EU forces, there is too much duplication and a large
lack of coordination and cooperation. A first and necessary step for national defense systems
better align and adjust them to the national military resources in a much more efficient and
effectively deploy. In time, the creation of a European peacekeeping force is the next step.
Such peacekeeping force can be deployed for peace missions and is made up of national and multinational
rapidly deployable units.
57. On the basis of "pooling and sharing" is wanted for maximum savings in military spending by the union
and its Member States. This is possible through a so-called "Defense Semester". Just like the European Semester
299

coordinate national economic policies at EU level, as EU Member States must also via a Defense Semester
share their national defense plans. "Quick wins" can promote this integration, such as the introduction of a
joint policy regarding the defense of the European airspace.
58. We are removing European aid to companies involved in the war economy and resist
against the intention of the European Commission to certain "dual-use" applications such as communication,
transport, weapon detection systems and monitoring equipment as finance drones with European money.
Stronger ex-ante control from the EU is needed in order to have better guarantees that these products are not
non-peaceful purposes.
59. Green advocates a coordinating Commissioner for Sustainable Development, also at a reduced
Supervisory Board.
60. Green criticizes that, in the context of free trade agreements establishing international
courts to defend states where foreign investors can sue if they feel their
Rights - read: profits - are violated. Precedents show that this happens when countries
general policy issue in favor of the environment, health or social protection.
Moreover, these ad hoc tribunals are populated by private lawyers who often have interests in the
business world. Therefore Green argues against such ad hoc tribunals and for the maintenance of
judicial systems of both partners.
61. The negotiation of bilateral free trade agreements with third countries advocated expressly Green
maintaining European standards and regulations regarding labor rights, social rights, environmental standards and digital
rights. We want to harmonize upwards, so that the highest standards as new standard
be recognized.
62. In the ongoing negotiations for a Transatlantic Free Trade Agreement between the EU and the
US lurks a real danger that certain democratic standards are not undermined by the principle of
mutual recognition of products and services. In areas where existing European social and
undermines environmental standards, such as in agriculture or culture, Green argues that it should in the negotiating mandate
are held.
63. Green requires transparency in bilateral negotiations on free trade. This can be done by the results of
publish any round time. Even access to the negotiators must be equal
for everyone. Large industries and banks were given very early in the process access to negotiators. This
should also be possible for organizations that serve the public interest, such as trade unions,
consumer associations, environmental organizations and parliaments. Only with increased transparency created by the
citizen support and a strengthened confidence in Europe.
64. Green wants the existing bilateral investment agreements renegotiation clauses to be enforceable
about respect for environmental, social and human rights to retract. We apply the European
model agreement (applicable since the Lisbon Treaty) in order to avoid such gaps in the future.
65. Generalised Scheme of Preferences is an instrument for development. Developing countries may
then decide to what extent they open up their markets to competition. Green opposes whatsoever against
the European system around trade preferences to developing countries which refused the opportunity to
give to introduce restrictions on exports of raw materials, and thus the development of emerging
industries bothered.
66. We wish that the Economic Partnership Agreements (EPAs) to be re-addressed in the
Committee on Development (DEVE) in the place of the Committee on International Trade (INTA), where the
strong majority in favor of free trade. This procedural change has ensured that the
Parliament has abandoned its critical stance with regard to the EPAs.
67. While the EU did already fierce shrinking expert subsidies for agricultural products, Green would go further and
all forms of agricultural export subsidies gradually abolish.
68. As regards the EU's raw materials strategy advocated Green more research and development into production efficiency, a decoupling of resource use and economic growth, enhanced transparency in the
mining sector, fight against corruption and mismanagement, as well as maintaining the same labor and
environmental standards in third countries as well as in the EU. Every year we can save 3% of GDP by
improvement in raw material efficiency.

300

FAIR GLOBALIZATION
VISION
Green is for the guidance of Belgian international policy consistent attitude
respect of human rights. Human rights are all days claimed by gays,
indigenous peoples, trade unions, women's groups, environmentalists, minority groups or youth
from Afghanistan to Zimbabwe. Like us, they fight for freedom all over the world,
respect, equality and justice. Around this guideline we develop a policy



For vegetable can be of chromium in our foreign policy is no question, as long as we are our
attitude consistently pull in all dimensions of the Belgian and European policy. What
our country gives with one hand, can not take back with the other hand. And whose own
house not in order, is not credible in criticizing others. For this reason, forming
coherence and coordination of international policy, a common thread. This vision
Sustainable development is the only way to Green for a better global governance for a
fair, more equitable globalization.
Which globalization has mainly pursued at the economic level. She has deep
cut into the social fabric of countless people and ecological demolition
caused. For Green, it is high time that a social and economic globalization
getting environmental dimension. From this point of an ambitious framework for post-2015
era
a
Absolute
need.
The
new
targets,
which
the
VNMillenniumdoelstellingen follow in 2015, must draw a universal agenda
sustainable development and fair globalization. Even Western countries, including Belgium,
will have to invest time and resources to a socially equitable and environmentally feasible
realizing globalization.
Green wants Belgium and the EU are fully committed to the objectives set out in
work for all countries, north and south, which is action-oriented, compact, easy to
communicate, limited in number and are universally applicable. The principles of
human rights, equality and sustainability, we place paramount. Our internationally
Wishlist is already clear: we want to push back the growing inequality,
causes of unsustainable consumption and production patterns approach, a stronger role
for civil society, a meticulous approach to good and accountable
governance and a special attention to the eradication of poverty. In addition, we need
with quantifiable targets based on indicators that are not only quantitative but also
are qualitative. They need to understand the many different dimensions of the subject and
a clear monitoring and evaluation of the policies and actions of the permit.
Formulating brings objectives for sustainable development at a global level
however not sufficient to ensure the international architecture was not realigns. The
international institutions must evolve towards an ecological
transition, reinforcing social structures and ensuring basic
human rights. This is not a precondition. If this precondition is not
is met, the entire exercise global risks remain a dead letter.
301 PROPOSALS
TO MODERN INTERNATIONAL ARCHITECTURE
The impotence of the UN became painfully clear in recent years, when the UN Security Council is not proved capable
condemning violence in Syria. How could it be otherwise, with multilateral institutions such as the UN, the IMF and the
World Bank which still reflect the post-war balance of power. Their composition is no longer
adapted to the realities of the 21st century, which undermines their legitimacy. Emerging economies and
developing countries have quite a voice in key international decision-making centers. This is necessary for a
fair, equal and balanced international policy.
REFORM OF THE UN
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
Green wants the veto disappears in the UN Security Council. We want to replace voting
qualified majority. To this end, the EU shows a good example. As a first step advocated by Belgium
France and Britain combining their seat in favor of the EU. Pending the
abolition of the veto, we ask that each veto is mandatory and extended motivated. Around the
To increase transparency, the discussions of the Security Council should always be made public. (F, E)
To achieve a more equitable policy of the UN Security Council's Green in favor of another
composition of the Board, preferably through regional offices such as the EU and the African Union.
(F)
Furthermore, we actively promote a consistent and guaranteed financing of the UN, even in our
allies. Thus the UN can the jobs that have been conferred to carrying, and she is able
to resist at decisive moments to political pressure. (F)
In 2011 a new UN agency was established to empower women and girls. A good thing, but
Green also asking for a greater presence of women in decision-making bodies, as well as in
all aspects of peace negotiations and agreements, since they are the main victims in
conflicts. (F)
Green also calls for an internal control of UN peacekeepers to shameful phenomena
rapes by preventing peacekeepers. UN operations must be performed by a good mix
countries. (F)
The UN Environment Programme has recently expanded to universal membership. For Green, this
inadequate, this institution will lead the transition to a sustainable world economy and they want the
existing framework agreements on biodiversity, climate and the dozens of multilateral environmental agreements
coordinate. Therefore strives Belgium at the UN for a World Environment Organisation on an equal footing with
World Trade Organisation and the International Labour Organisation. (F)
Green is working towards strengthening the EU's diplomatic relations with regional organizations such as the
African Union, Arab League, ASEAN and others in international processes in the UN and elsewhere. Also in this
relationships is central to the participation of stakeholders. (F)
REFORM OF THE INTERNATIONAL commercial and financial SETTINGS
8. The political participation and representation of southern countries in the IMF could be better. Green suggests
to work through the representation of regional blocs. In the current quota system, the
developing countries far too little influence in comparison to their economic weight, which is measured
according to a system that was created largely rests on the situation when the IMF. (F)
9. The IMF human rights, environmental and social standards more to consider in the policies they
performs. While also ensuring that civil society is given a stronger role in the
policy formulation. (F)
10. The World Bank should focus on the financing of public goods through offering low
interest. While also ensuring that the funded programs and projects of social and environmental
respect as well as human rights in the beneficiary countries. (F)
11. The World Bank and the IMF are known for their lack of transparency, despite their huge impact in
the world. To get a democratically legitimized list here, Green suggests that the Belgian
Representatives for the autumn and spring peaks in parliament during a public session report
cast. (F)
302 12. In order to generally strengthen parliamentary scrutiny, we establish a federal commission on the
fully to international commitments on trade, financial institutions and other monitors. In
This forum can held prior to important moments parliamentary debates and hearings
be for the purpose of determining a Belgian position. The society and the regions as
parties invited to the consultation meetings. (F)
13. The multilateral negotiations in the World Trade Organisation (WTO) are deadlocked for years. The
failure of the Doha Round stimulated many countries to conclude bilateral trade agreements. The result is that
agreements between major players such as the US and the EU, given their economic weight, the prevailing norms
determine, without participation of smaller countries. Green defends a multilateral approach to trade rules but
calls for a review of the core objectives of the global trading system in the direction of a
ecological transition, the development of decent work and guaranteeing fundamental rights.
The negotiations should lead to meaningful and sustainable economic gains and exterminating
poverty, in particular for the developing countries. Therefore the WHO as a specialized agency
be integrated into the UN system, on par with, inter alia, the International Labour Organisation,
so the WHO on social and environmental issues covered by the UN conventions. (F, E)
14. Green is also committed to a thorough and systematic evaluation of EU policies, in particular the
impact of existing agreements and negotiating proposals on sustainable development and international
rights. Based on these evaluations, the EU applies the chords. (E)
HUMAN RIGHTS
Green wants our governments work actively to enforce and protect the rights of man in the whole
world. We are committed to the traditional civil and political rights but also economic, social and
cultural rights. Our particular attention is paid to the rights that go even further, such as the right as the right to
a clean environment, economic and social development, self-determination of all kinds of collective rights. Human rights
are universal, they apply to everyone, anytime, anywhere. Extra attention is paid to the rights and empowerment of
women and minorities such as LGBT people and people with disabilities. Green speaks the (inter) national business to
its responsibilities with regard to human rights. In view of the candidacy of Belgium for the VNMensenrechtenraad (2016-2018), the United Nations Security Council (2019-2020) and the Council of Europe (2014-2015), our country
have credibility on the international stage.
15. Therefore, our country in the field of human rights sweep first and foremost for their own door, and urgently
making the creation of an integrated Belgian human rights committee responsible for
to investigate human rights violations and to provide policy advice to individual
Complaints to treat it as a kind of ombudsman. This committee provides a venue for NGOs
and the various authorities to assess the national and international policies on human rights.
This leads to better coordination and systematic monitoring of international commitments on
human rights. The committee presented the policy critically and reports at regular intervals to the
parliaments. To be internationally recognized human rights commission meets the criteria of the
'Paris Principles'. (V, B, F)
16. It is also crucial for Green Belgium to comply with its international obligations by a number
sign important international conventions, ratify and implement. In particular, Green attaches
importance to the Conventions of the International Labour Organisation and the Optional Protocol to the UN Convention
against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment ', whose
mandate must belong to the set up human rights commission. Belgium also has to implement
improve the UN Torture Convention and thereby formulate a stronger policy response to the conclusions of the
UN Committee against Torture. Finally, Belgium and the states must respond to all recommendations
formulated in the 'Universal Periodic Review' of the UN Human Rights Council, whose final stage is planned
2015 (F, B, F).
17. To be on ensuring that the trade policies of our country and our companies abroad
consistent with the respect for human rights, social and environmental dimensions, Belgium operates a
system to identify human rights ambassadors, in line with the economic
Ambassadors who are already active. (F)
18. Belgium proposes a full-term national action plan on Business and Human Rights, following
Netherlands and the United Kingdom. This Action Plan, which is based on guidelines and principles of the United
Nations in 2011 developed must ensure that companies respect human rights throughout
production chain and not just in their own activities. The action plan has the advantage that there are clear
guidelines, a level playing field and national legislation that meets international standards. (F)
303 19. The ambassadors of our diplomatic missions present on lawsuits brought against
human rights defenders and follow these processes in cooperation with the EU representation and
Embassies and Consulates of EU Member States. There is a rotation agreed at European level to
presence to insure. (F, E)
20. Belgium is opposed to the attempts to weaken the mandate of the European Court of Human Rights
(ECHR) in Strasbourg to limit and the International Criminal Court in The Hague to erode. Green wants Belgium
conducts an active policy to encourage other states to join the Rome Statute, thus
the authority and effectiveness of the ICC to expand globally.
21. Belgium and the EU continue to work towards the universal abolition of the death penalty, and put it on the agenda
of any consultations with countries or states where the death penalty is applied. Additionally strives for Belgium
more pressure on countries that do not prohibit the use of child soldiers and support our country projects
reintegration of former child soldiers. (F, E)
22. Attention to sexual and reproductive rights is a priority of the Belgian diplomacy. The watches
Government ensure that invested more than at the Belgian, European and international level in the financing
programs in this sector, because of their enormous multiplier effects for the development of women
worldwide. (F, E)
RESPECT FOR THE ENVIRONMENT, SOCIAL NORMS AND HUMAN RIGHTS IN TRADE,
INVESTMENT POLICY AND MATERIALS
Trade and investment promotion is one of the main tasks of the Belgian and European Foreign Policy.
The impact of trade and investment is very tangible. To ensure that this policy is serving
sustainable development, and here in the south, must respect human rights, social and environmental standards.
23.
Green wants to renegotiate existing bilateral investment agreements and enforceable clauses
about respect for environmental, social and human rights in the new agreements. In the
extension, we apply the Belgian and European model agreement to these gaps in the future
avoid. The inhuman conditions in which laborers work in Qatar on the occasion of the World Cup
2022 show that this is not a futility. (F, E)
24.
At the Flemish and Brussels-level Green wants to export support and promotion of investment by Flanders
Investment & Trade and Brussels Invest & Export to States to address human rights,
environmental and social standards to respect or enroll in a process to allow themselves to standards
appropriating. (V, B)
25.
Trade missions not only serve Belgian economic interests, they are also a calling card
country. To avoid the missions of our princes, princesses and ministers drawn unbalanced
and put wrong accents, Green wants the program to the competent committees in the
Parliaments are informed, if possible, is discussed in advance by the relevant committees and
when appropriate, formulate clear tasks and / or recommendations to the representative in
issue. (V, B, F)
26.
To promote corporate social responsibility, green will find that our embassies companies
must inform problematic practices, such as violations of international law where the
investment and trading activities of Belgian companies can contribute to, or the bad reputation
or working with local subcontractors. (F)
27.
The EU is negotiating bilateral free trade agreements with the US, Japan and other countries since the
multilateral process does not get out of the doldrums. Because of the real danger that certain democratic standards
be undermined by the principle of mutual recognition of products and services in Europe and the
US opposition Green oppose the scaling back of European standards and regulations regarding labor rights,
social rights, environmental standards and digital rights. Green aims to harmonize upwards
so that the highest standards are recognized as the new standard. In areas where this is absolutely impossible
is like in the area of ​​agriculture or culture, Green demands that they prior to the negotiations
mandate are held. (E)
28.
In free trade and investment agreements Green indicates the establishment of non-transparent
arbitration mechanisms off. This indeed make that foreign investors national
bypass courts to sue states if those companies are finding that their rights - read
profits - are violated when countries issue general policy in favor of
the environment, public health or social protection. Thus challenged tobacco giant Philip Morris governments
Uruguay and Australia for such arbitration tribunal after blank cigarette packs imported.
Precedents show that these ad hoc tribunals are populated by private lawyers
conflicts of interest. Green therefore calls for the enforcement of the judicial systems of both
304 29.
30.
31.
32.
trading. Trade and investment agreements should the policy that serves the general interest,
not threaten. (F, E)
To date, gets the lobby of major industries and banks have a disproportionate privilege at the
negotiation of free trade agreements. They not only have more direct access to the
negotiators, they have the ability to determine very early in the process with the orientations of the
future agreement. Organizations that serve the public interest, such as trade unions,
consumer associations and environmental organizations, let alone parliaments in this process
tacitly pushed aside. Green claims that everyone has equal access, and therefore slide
improved transparency to the fore. Moreover, the results of each round of negotiations should
be timely published. Only occurs with greater transparency in the civic and public support
strengthened confidence in Europe. (E)
Global commons such as water, clean air, oceans and marine resources, cultural goods, the
genetic resources and countless other goods we daily joint depend, for Green
not a commodity. We demand that governments worldwide recognize the unique character of these commons
and protect. A specific priority is to establish a moratorium on the exploitation of mineral
raw materials in the Arctic. Commodity race affix the environment and causes serious damage
geopolitical tensions. Belgium has engaged in 2011 for an international protocol
seeks to impose a moratorium on the exploitation of raw materials. It is now important for Green
to implement this Protocol. (F)
Following the same logic should water may not form the subject of privatization, such as in 2010
confirmed by the General Assembly of the UN At international fora should resist Belgium
against all attempts to turn back the clock, and work towards a transnational approach
water problems. (F)
Green wants Belgium controls intent to combat illegal logging. According to the European rules
timber traders must themselves judge whether or imported timber is not illegal. This is not for them,
feasible. Logging companies who break the rules with impunity. As our country among the top five of
importers belongs in Europe, Green wants to make this a priority. (F, E)
FAIR RULES FOR INTERNATIONAL TRADE
33.
34.
35.
36.
305
The rich countries of today were using in their development of a trade and industrial policies affecting them
allowed to protect the still weak, emerging industries against free trade through export subsidies to
know whether patent rights to stop. Western countries today want to avoid poor
countries apply the same recipes. Green finds that developing countries with similar resources
should be able to develop. These countries should therefore decide to what extent they have their markets
open to competition. The EU and others should not punish them for that choice. (F, E)
The EU is committed to a preferential treatment across the developing world. Green opposes
against the way European Commissioner for Trade Karel De Gucht developing countries
no free trade agreement to finish with the EU the knife to the throat move. In negotiations with
former colonies in Africa, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) on Economic Partnership Agreements
(EPAs) the EU should offer these countries more freedom to protect against emerging sectors
competition from Europe and to give preference to regional and continental integration that much
important than the preferential access to the European market. The EU offers these countries the widest
possible entry without the export opportunities of poorer developing countries to wipe out and help
The meet quality and flexible rules of origin. Condition remains compliance
international treaties on good governance, human rights and labor rights. The EU should support African
regions, which still mostly consist of least developed countries, as the least developed in their entirety would
recognize and treat the same way. As the most advanced developing countries of their
open borders for European import, which is input after all the least developed countries
in because they form a customs union with the more developed countries. (E)
In bilateral and regional trade negotiations, the Union must take into account the interests
of the countries in the South. Compensation for tax losses by eliminating the
import tariffs should be provided for developing countries.
There should be no
topics for negotiations forced upon which the developing countries do not want
negotiate. Poverty reduction, sustainable development and decent work, the general
objectives. (F, E)
The EU needs all its forms of agricultural export subsidies gradually abolish. (E) CONFLICT PREVENTION - PREVENTION IS BETTER THAN CURE
Peacebuilding, security and defense can not be separated from each other. But also terrorism, inequality,
climate, migration, trade policy and many other issues are an integral part of the same vision and approach.
Green calls therefore always on making connections and breaking up the various policy areas of their
silos and booths. That interdependence is perhaps most evident in our approach to conflict prevention,
a tool which covers many areas in practice. To avoid military intervention we have our
ability to resolve conflicts peacefully, strengthen. That means we must invest in strengthening
our knowledge and may conflict prevention, diplomacy, conflict mediation and civil penalties. That is a plus
also a profitable investment for every euro spent on conflict prevention saves four euros in costs avoided
conflicts. Yet conflict Least Developed shift our foreign policy and the previous federal
Government itself saved.
37.
Green wants to again upgrade conflict prevention and preventive diplomacy and in the center of the
policy of the Minister of Foreign Affairs places. Save on conflict prevention, such as during the
previous legislature, is shortsighted. (F)
38.
In foreign policy, we focus on effective structures, more money and personnel for civilian
peace building, gender mainstreaming, police, judiciary, public administration, development of local parliaments,
dialogue and reconciliation between communities and peace education. (F)
39.
We refuse state aid to businesses that provide goods or services to customers who violate
act in international law, international humanitarian law and human rights. We ask
ethical criteria when exportverzekerinsinstellingen, such as the Company, and we keep businesses
arguably in contravention of the laws of war and human rights act in our public
procurement. (V, B, F)
40.
The EU must strengthen its civilian expertise for mediation and crisis prevention in the European Department
External Action Service, with a highly developed diplomatic network. There should be a European Civil
Peacekeeper rapidly deployable experts are specialized in crisis prevention and
peacebuilding. (E)
41.
Belgium and the EU must work actively to prevent or quickly stop humanitarian crises and
commit themselves to protect (Responsibility to Protect). When a state in front of the own
population the responsibility to protect can not or will not record, adopts the international
community responsibility with a UN mandate. But the debate on R2P should not
be narrowed to the military aspects. R2P is primarily the responsibility to preventable through
diplomacy and humanitarian aid. (F, E)
42.
Green wants to develop an action plan following the example of Germany, to powerful and crisis prevention
conduct peace policy. In it we guarantee that Belgium soon civilian experts such as police, justice or
administrative experts can bet, and we provide sufficient financial incentives and
career guarantees. (F)
ARMS TRADE curb
43.
44.
45.
306

Although the international Arms Trade Treaty (2013) is an important milestone, we can not on our
rest laurels. The most glaring loophole in the treaty is that countries provided 'decisive'
reasons, still can pass off an arms deal. Because the note Belgium must strive for
international community has a 'strong' interpretation of the treaty. This will prevent the
future security or sovereignty a decisive factor in relation to human rights,
humanitarian law or other export criteria in the evaluation. But even in his own country is still work to be done,
mainly because of the regionalization of responsibility for such arms in 2003. Belgium bears
a special responsibility: 48% to the Middle East European firearms shipped
Belgian. FN Herstal in Wallonia and Barco in Flanders are the world leader in certain types of
weapons and weapon technologies. (F)
Belgium plays an active role as an advocate for the rigorous application of the international
Arms Trade Treaty. Belgium should support the extension of the treaty to dual use items
and the removal of exemptions for arms trade in the context of military
cooperation agreements, which for example allows the Russian traffic to Syria. (F)
Green is not asking for a new state in 2014, but if a new round
come, Green will put the herfederalisering of arms on the agenda. In that regard, we ask ourselves
big questions at the lack of cohesion between the federal and regional policies on arms trade. We

46.

47.

48.
49.

50.
51.

52.
53.

54.
55.
56.
57.

regret that this fragmented policy domain instead of a lever rather is an obstacle to a
coherent policy to be pursued in the international arena. (F)
Green interprets the criteria of the European Code of Conduct for export and for weapons doorvoergunningen
to grant very strict and the precautionary principle. So we carry no weapons if the country
of destination or the country of final use case of manifest and serious violations of
human rights or international humanitarian law, where there is serious
internal repression or if it is established that child soldiers are aligned with the regular army,
or if there is a risk that the country of destination or end use violence to assert by force
territorial claims. (V, B, F)
There must be an effective control on the final destination of Belgian weapons to
prevent exports fall into the wrong hands. This has to be a prerequisite for the
obtaining an export license. (V, B, F)
Green calls for a rapid implementation of a law on brokering and transit. In Belgium there
no control on these activities. Green always wants mandatory reporting of transit operations. (F)
The implementation of a European Directive which arms trade within the European Union largely
exempts from licensing and reporting provides even less transparency than ever before. This directive,
already turned into decrees, provides for three types of licenses (individual, global and general). At the
two last shifts the control prior to the transaction verification. The EU Member States may impose their own additional requirements. Flanders and Brussels are doing this yourself. The
European rules lead to permit shopping by the arms industry in the EU. Green asked that the
Lander on this report in detail to the parliaments. (V, B)
Peace and human rights organizations should play a greater role in the arms trade control and get a
right of action. (V, B, F)
The decrees working with a weak definition of what should be included under all weaponry.
Green wants the so-called catch-all clause tighten. There must always be taken into account
the end use. Equipment that no weaponry appears to be, but is frequently incorporated in military
devices, should not escape the law. (V, B, F)
The point is to know who the end user of the weapons that are provided, and for which
they are used. Green wants on that in all cases complete answer. (V, B, F)
On the federal level, a new Weapons Act required residual capacities in terms of sales
police and army equipment to regulate in accordance with European regulations. This trade is
currently still 10% of total arms exports from Belgium. The parliament should have all sell
be notified in advance. (F)
At European level Green advocates to set binding standards for arms exports
prohibit conflict zones. (E)
Green advocates a ban on the export of surveillance and censorship technology to autocratic
regimes. (V, B, F)
Green is working towards greater transparency and effective monitoring of the export of civilian goods as well
to serve warfare and repressive policies. (V, B, F)
Drones are in international law in a legal vacuum. Green wants Belgium and the EU
targeted killings condemn these weapons. (F, E)

A nuclear-free world
In the short term Green, the American B61 tactical nuclear weapons away from Belgium and Europe. Nuclear weapons are
militarily absolutely useless in Europe. Moreover, they are expensive and dangerous, because they are an interesting target for
terrorists. Our country should support all initiatives to go in the rest of the world 'global zero'.
The good example set helps. It also endorsed Guy Verhofstadt, Jean-Luc Dehaene, and Louis Michel
Willy Claes in an opinion piece in 2010: "By maintaining European nuclear weapons, we continue to signal to the rest of
give the world that nuclear weapons are "necessary." As a result, we indirectly promotes proliferation and undermines the security
of our country. Sometimes we must dare to set an example and hope that this inspiring works. "
58.
Green wants Belgium on the NATO insists to decide in Newport at its peak in 2014 to its
nuclear task to end by 2016. If one remains deaf NATO on the 65th anniversary of the
demand for nuclear disarmament, Belgium through bilateral talks, the removal of the US
Questions nuclear weapons. Greece did so successfully in 2001. A nuclear weapons is possible against Belgium
2016, with or without NATO. (F)
59.
Since 2007, Belgium consistently voting against UN resolutions that call to start negotiations
an international treaty banning nuclear weapons, in line with international conventions
307

60.

61.

62.
63.

Chemical and biological weapons. Green wants Belgium supports an active nuclear weapons convention, as
Other initiatives such as the UN conference on a nuclear-free zone in the Middle East and
prohibition to use nuclear weapons first (no first use). Belgium also operates a policy for
Nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation. (F)
Nuclear Armament is the peace policy of the EU in the way. At the next conference of the Non-Proliferation Treaty in 2015, the EU must adopt a strong common position and action to
Article VI of the treaty to strengthen. That Article provides for nuclear disarmament and control of the
multilateral non-proliferation system. Moreover, Green wants to export credit guarantees for nuclear
projects abroad be banned. (E)
The conflict surrounding the Iranian nuclear program must be prevented through political and peaceful means. The
EU must continue to take a leading role in strengthening the positive dynamics, by the European
sanctions consistently and systematically build in exchange for Iran's cooperation and transparency
their nuclear program in order to strengthen the position of the moderate camp in Iran. (E)
Iran is party to the Non-Proliferation Treaty. India, Israel, Pakistan and South Sudan not. Belgium and the EU
urge these countries to quickly become parties to the Convention. (F, E)
The EU France and Britain to to perform their obligations under the
NPT, particularly the reduction of their nuclear arsenals. (E)

EU'S SECURITY AND NATO
Green is strongly opposed to the idea that security only includes technologies that focus on military deterrence and
supervision. Business interests and the arms industry to have a major impact on the understanding of security. We have to
reclaiming the concept of security also because our equity, social cohesion, environmental
justice, general welfare and integration into society an integral part of the concept of "security".
NATO after the fall of the Iron Curtain turned into an organization that is no longer focused solely on the
guaranteeing collective defense of its Member States. Meanwhile, NATO also conducts global missions involving
she applies a unilateral military strategy. In Afghanistan has shown that an overemphasis on the military not hatch
sods brings to the dike. The entry into NATO of certain strategically located countries in the Caucasus, in function
energy supply, shows how the organization has adapted to the 21st century. New challenges
However, best addressed by the appropriate authority, which is best equipped to provide a durable,
to provide comprehensive response. For Green that both the UN and the EU on the other. In that scenario, the
NATO eventually obsolete and there is no place for the organization.
64.
Challenges such as international terrorism, cyber crime, climate change and pollution
or energy supply requires more than just a military approach. Therefore, it is not NATO but the EU
best placed to conduct a comprehensive security policy that the non-military aspects central
states. The EU continues to invest in its asset, an integrated approach to all dimensions of conflicts,
strengthen. (F, E)
65.
NATO focuses most on its core task of collective defense, and to the commands via the EU but also
UN assigned to it. For Green, the most a NATO military-technical tool box
which can draw on the EU and the UN. It is a military organization that never, by definition, a solution
a conflict can achieve and therefore should never be in charge of an international operation. (F,
E)
66.
A European security policy starts with a common foreign policy. Green will therefore
also strengthen the European External Action Service, so that Europe in the field of foreign policy
can speak with one voice. A disarmament policy must be one of the spearheads
Common Foreign and Security Policy of the EU. To be a credible actor on the
diplomatic stage, the High Representative for foreign policy as a priority
swiping own door. Catherine Ashton was able to force a breakthrough in the European conflict
Kosovo and Serbia. Her successor must tackle the conflicts in Cyprus and Macedonia. (E)
67.
The EU must be able to act autonomously, especially in its neighborhood area. A better
cooperation between EU Member States in the field of defense is indeed increasingly
necessary because the US have shifted their geographic priorities from Europe to Asia. Green is
in favor of a stronger European peacekeeping force which can be deployed for peace missions and
made up of national or multinational rapidly deployable units. Belgium must be within the EU harder
efforts to align the different national defense structures on each other and adapt to
so into the national military resources in a much more efficient and effective manner. The
cooperation between the Benelux Armies is a good start but not the end point. Moreover, the
defense planning are coordinated at EU level. Between EU forces is indeed too much duplication and
308

68.

69.

70.
71.

a lack of coordination and cooperation. EU Member States finance more than eg
twenty programs - instead of one common program - an armored vehicle
develop. With 200 billion defense spending are joint second highest in the world,
after the US and Russia or China. At the same time only 10% (1.6 to 2 million soldiers) of the European
Armed Forces fully operational. (F, E)
Green is also committed to strengthening the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe. Her
predecessor (the Conference for Security and Cooperation in Europe) played an important role in
Overcoming the Cold War, but today we need a better understanding with
Russia, not least to ease military tensions between NATO and Russia, a
Disarmament to come. (E)
Terrorist networks pose a threat to stability and security in different regions. The
reduce the threat of terrorism is done in a European context. This can be done by better cooperation
intelligence and security services, but the democratic supervision to be tightened. The
massive collection of data of unsuspected persons constitutes a threat to privacy,
freedom of expression, press freedom and the rule of law. In the context of the prevention of terrorism
it is important to give greater diplomatic and humanitarian attention to fragile states, their
economic developments and the (political) participation of their citizens, such as Somalia, Pakistan and
Sudan. (E)
Green opposes the international trend towards increasing privatization of military tasks. (F)
Green is relevant to state aid to companies in the war economy and combat the opposition
intention of the European Commission to certain "dual-use" applications such as communications, transportation,
weapon detection systems and surveillance equipment such as drones financed with European money. (F, E)

WHERE THE BELGIAN ARMY?
Green wants a young, efficient and deployable army dedicated to a few niches and intensely cooperates with the armies
our EU allies. So we rationalize resources and increase efficiency. On expertise include
peacekeeping and demining is being developed and deployed. Each army reform happens in social
consultation and relies on objective criteria, such as optimal geographical distribution of the barracks. Green wants the
Government, in consultation with parliament and civil society, in a Defence White Paper developing a strategic vision of tasks,
required organizational and resources in the long term of our defense in the long term.
72.
Green chooses specialization of its own armed forces and cooperation with the other EU Member States.
Only then can sufficient strength and quality are guaranteed. The fusion of the
Dutch and Belgian navies in one naval component Admiral Benelux is the prime example
the win-wins that can be achieved through intensive cooperation within the EU. Belgium and the
EU must develop more such partnerships. (F)
73.
The Belgian F-16s are nearing their expiry date employability and from 2023 gradually out
met circulation. Decide on a replacement for the F-16s is only possible after a division of labor between
European countries and a debate in parliament. Today there is no shortage of fighter bombers in
Europe, thus emphasizing defense specialists. For us it is inconceivable that this decision and Belgium
billion purchase takes on alone. The discussion and focus on expensive fighter aircraft mortgaging
moreover the necessary replacement of our minesweepers and frigates. On the possible replacement
the F-16 and other expensive weapons systems such as minesweepers and frigates must at the same
time to be decided, so that no single file is drawn to. The acquisition of Belgo, Belgian
large and expensive weapons systems for budgetary and politically marginalized. (F)
74.
To keep the military careers attractive, the experience and training should be used
in a later civilian career. Defence remains a male bastion. Especially when the volunteers are women
under-represented (7.5% in 2013). Defence must therefore establish a roadmap with measurable
aims to increase the number of female soldiers on differentiated and realistic way.
If the roadmap does not constitute a better gender balance, parliament may consider quotas.

PARLIAMENT DECIDES ON MILITARY ACTION
Green puts a strong emphasis on conflict prevention. However, if all nonviolent slopes such as diplomacy, conflict mediation and civil
sanctions fail, military intervention under strict conditions may be a final option. There should or regional
support for the intervention and there should be a clear (international) strategy with clear set of objectives and
long-term vision for civil reconstruction, addressing the structural causes of the conflict and which Belgium
is committed to contribute substantially.
309

75.
76.
77.

78.

79.

For Green should be supported every military intervention by a UN mandate. (F)
If Belgian troops are involved, integration in an EU or UN mission is as much a necessity
to ensure the necessary capacity and to avoid the appearance of self-interest. (F)
Protection of the civilian population and prevent civilian casualties are decisive
criteria during surgery. Also regional aid for the operation is a major factor. Are further
sufficient, adequate and well-trained personnel required, with a comprehensive framework to "rules of
engagement "so that the quota can cope with" worst case "scenarios. (F)
The decision to send out Belgian soldiers must be taken by parliament, not by
the government after a parliamentary debate in which the government explaining the risks and the "rules of engagement".
Concretely, this means that Article 167 of the Constitution be amended so that it to parliament at
qualified majority vote, is entitled to decide on the deployment of troops in
Abroad. (F)
The government ensures that the parliament can monitor every military operation continuously
proportionality, effectiveness and legal basis, according to objective criteria, so that there is no
"Mission creep" occurs. The Parliament also decided on the extension of our military presence
Based on a memorandum which the government evaluates the progress on military, diplomatic and civilian. (F)

AN ACTIVE ROLE IN SPECIFIC AND CURRENT FIRE FIRES
Belgium must have an ambitious foreign policy, particularly in view of our candidacy in 2019-20 a member of the
To the UN Security Council. Belgium has specific diplomatic expertise on a number of countries and regions in
the world. As our country must continue to guarantee its value.
Many conflicts and places where human rights are violated, do not get the diplomatic attention
they deserve because of strategic interests or the cost of an intervention. Think of this forgotten or
frozen conflicts in Sudan, Ivory Coast, Ethiopia, South Sudan, Western Sahara, Liberia, Burma, Tibet, Sri Lanka, Mali,
Niger, Nagorno-Karabakh, Transnistria, the Uighurs, Haiti, Guatemala, Bolivia, Colombia and Honduras. Many situations
However, alarming, and can in turn be a source of instability and conflict. Belgium should also be in that
problem actively contribute to diplomatic solutions.

SYRIA
The UN Security Council has so far touched disagree about condemnation of the atrocities, nor
common sanctions such as an embargo on the export of weapons to the conflict zone or a referral
war criminals to the ICC. Russia and China have already blocked several UN resolutions and
are against any coercive measures in the UN Security Council.
Nevertheless leave Belgium and the EU after to make greater efforts where they can do more: Humanitarian Aid
to the affected population. In Belgium regarded the budget minister humanitarian aid to refugees even if
an "avoidable expenditure", so the budgets are blocked. That defies all imagination for Green.
80.
There is no systematic investigation of most serious crimes against humanity by the
International Criminal Court. Belgium must continue to advocate for a referral of the dossier to the ICC.
(F)
81.
The majority of the three million Syrians who have fled the violence, are collected in
refugee camps in the neighboring countries of Syria. Those neighbors deserve our support more than ever in the
care and housing of the daily increasing number of refugees. The EU and its Member States can
and must do more here. (F, E)
82.
But Belgium and the EU could do more humanitarian assistance to the displaced and the needy
population in Syria to bring (over 9 million people), in particular in the so-called liberated areas
through cooperation with Syrian and international NGOs. Cross-border assistance is a previously
essential condition. (F, E)
83.
Belgium continues to reject the supply of arms to parties in this civil war. Belgium must at
Neighbours insist to stop at their borders armed fighters, both foreign
Jihadists (via Turkey, Jordan and Iraq) as Hezbollah fighters (via Iran). (F)
84.
Civil institutions that still exist in the liberated territories in Syria, we must support:
civil authorities, police and courts, but also basic services such as education
for the children. (F)
85.
The EU remains best bet for a diplomatic solution and convince both parties to a transition to
accept. (F, E)

310

86.

87.

Belgium insists that members of the United Nations General Assembly together
behind non-military sanctions such as an arms embargo and economic sanctions against the warring
scissors parties to the conflict if the Security Council remains blocked. (F)
Both Belgium and other European countries make efforts through resettlement or subsidiary
protection to include as many Syrian refugees. Syrian refugees just hitting
not with us. Green supports the relaxing of visa requirements for those who want to flee Syria,
extension of delivered visas and facilitating the procedure for family reunification. (F, E))

ARAB REVOLUTIONS
Although the context in each of the countries where the Arab Spring made its appearance varies, Green is realistic
about the consequences of the Arab revolutions. Experiences with emancipation movements elsewhere shows that progress
real, but is not always a straight line. Initially democracy often leads to less stability. It takes time
before new political relationships and institutions are crystallized, and that could have an impact on the
economic development. The EU needs a clear commitment to a consistent policy that positive, democratic and
constructive forces supports in these countries.
88.
Green wants Europe to focus on funding projects that civil society
strengthen and thus achieve greater dialogue, pluralism and understanding, as well as initiatives
institutional reform, democratic processes and monitoring support the security forces.
The EU must use levers such as a relaxation of the visa regime, so
students, researchers, people from civil society, businessmen and journalists
eligible for a temporary stay in our country. Another lever is the awarding of scholarships
to students. (E)
89.
Green wants the EU to strict positive (more for more) and negative (less for less) conditions
applies in respect of the rule of law, human rights and democratization in deepening the
EU economic cooperation with these countries. (E)
90.
The EU monitors the protection of ethnic and religious minorities in these countries and this requires
countries to ensure minorities have equal access to economic and political opportunities. (E)
91.
Green wants that any policies in this region is on sustainable economic development, in the
particularly by reducing the number of young people in unemployment. We also put best
water scarcity on the agenda. The improving economy had imposed great pressure on scarce
water resources and fertile territory, which can lead to new internal and external conflicts. (F, E)

MIDDLE EAST PEACE PROCESS
Belgium must ensure that the European Union is pursuing a coherent policy on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict,
which are working towards peace and a two state solution. The construction of the illegal Israeli settlements in
Palestinian Territory increased in 2013. Measures such as condemning the expansion of Israeli settlements in
Palestinian Territory (including parts of Jerusalem) and the delivery of humanitarian assistance in the Palestinian Territories are
totally inadequate. The EU can and should do more to enable a two-state solution. At a time
We understand the security risks that Israel faces. We strongly condemn all forms of
violence, both Palestinian armed groups and the Israeli army.
92. The numerous peace and human rights organizations in Israel and Palestine, which include ensuring respect for
human rights, building trust, mutual understanding, deserve our support. (F)
93. The EU and Belgium continue to insist on respect for international law and the immediate cessation
acts of violence by all actors. Both the incursions and violations of the Israeli army and the
to mortar and acts of terror must stop by Palestinian armed groups. (F, E)
94. All violations of international humanitarian and human rights law committed in Israel and the
Palestinian Occupied Territories by Israel, the Palestinian Authority, Hamas or other Palestinian groups
must be forcefully condemned (F, E)

95. Green supports a ban on Israeli products and services from the under international
law illegal settlements in the Palestinian territories, East Jerusalem and the Golan. (F)
96. Belgium Netherlands works like a deterrent policy against the Belgian companies that directly or
providing indirect support to the settlement policy, with both information, discouragement as
sanctions. The financing by the Dexia Group of settlements is immediately terminated. The Belgian
government used its political influence in addition to its influence as majority shareholder of Dexia SA to the
loans Dexia Israel (Dexia SA is 66% owned by Dexia Israel) attributed to the construction of illegal
settlements in the Palestinian territories immediately to stop. (F)
311

97. Green wants the Association Agreement is suspended between the EU and Israel as long as Israel, the wording
does not live in the Association Agreement, in particular Article 2 on the respect of
democratic principles and fundamental human rights and Article 83 relating to the rule of origin.
Further integration of Israel into the EU internal market, or deeper sectoral cooperation we
depending on the progress of Israel in compliance with international law, in particular the
human rights and international humanitarian law. (F, E)
98. The EU should Israeli companies with ties exclude the settlements of European financial
support. The Union must also ensure the correct application of its guidelines in July 2013, allowing Israel
new agreements can not be applied to the settlements. (F, E)
99. The Government must ensure that this policy is also implemented consistent with respect to the other occupied
areas such as the Western Sahara (occupied by Morocco). (F)
100. The EU and Belgium continue to insist on the lifting of the blockade (land, sea and air) from the Gaza Strip.
(F, E)
101. The EU and Belgium continue to insist on the dismantling of the wall, in accordance with the opinion of the International
Court of Justice of 2004. (F, E)
102. Both Belgium and the EU recognize and support Palestine as a state and support the full membership
the Palestinian state in the UN. (F, E)

AFGHANISTAN
The NATO mission under ISAF in Afghanistan will conclude in 2014. For our Belgian soldiers is the
Mission then on there. But there is a lot of uncertainty about the Belgian contribution to international efforts in
Afghanistan after 2014. A Belgian military engagement in Afghanistan only if it is also used on a
political solution to the conflict.
103. Only a civilian effort to ensure sustainable development. Therefore, the Belgian contribution for
Development in Afghanistan for years maintained. The civilian contribution must
it is autonomous, and end up with whose help it needs most. (F)
104. Defence Minister Pieter De Crem wants to stay Belgian soldiers. Training Afghan
security services after 2014 only if the UN Security Council a mandate for a peace-building
Mission will. (F)
105. Premises is not forgotten. Get local staff (interpreters and technical staff) and their families
offered asylum in Belgium to guarantee their safety against retaliation by the armed groups.
(F)
106. The EU should make full use of negotiations between the Afghan government and the Taliban, in which there
guarantees that the rights of minorities, including women, are not sacrificed. (E)

CENTRAL AFRICA
With the Framework Agreement of Addis Ababa in February 2013 is a first step put to build peace in the region. The
strengthening the mandate of MONUSCO and the new leadership of the peacekeeping force, as well as rare
victory of the Congolese army and the M23 are new lights.
107. Belgium placed the Congolese problems proactively on the international agenda and also plays a constructive
role in the processes that guarantee the stability and development in the region. Green wants the ministers
foreign affairs, defense, development and finance together formulate a clear Central Africa Memorandum, which sets put is how Belgium and the provinces and a voluntarist
ambitious role to play in the long term. The focus is on Green on democratization, good governance and
peace building, and calls for a cross-border approach focuses on the underlying causes of conflict
and the lack of development. (F)
108. Green wants Belgium and the EU advocate to put an end to impunity. They also need more work
Making the fight against predatory raw materials in the region, without the artisanal mining, however, in
to bring danger. (F, E)
109. Both Rwanda, Congo and Burundi is a real chance that the current presidents revise the constitution in order to
to a third term. Green wants Belgium and the EU oppose this and make it clear that
respect for democracy, the rule of law and human rights precedence over so-called "stability". The
stay on these presidents and disproportionate concentration of power are not a sustainable recipe for
development. (F)
110. The reform of the security sector, particularly in the Congo, but also in Burundi, remains a priority. Belgium
permanently contribute to the reform of the security sector through training of the security forces to
312

offer. Belgium, however, can put more pressure on the Congolese authorities and other parties in the
conflict in eastern Congo are involved to bring stability. Congo itself does finally work of the
reforming its security services and the decentralization of power to the provinces. (F)
111. Despite economic growth in Rwanda, the opposition, civil society and the independent
critical press is considerably suppressed. Burundi also goes in the same direction, following the elections in
2015, witness the press law which journalists severely limited in their critical role. The Belgian government
within the EU at the forefront of a strong condemnation of such laws, maximum support
provide and maintain contacts with repressed journalists and activists. (F, E)
112. Especially now that its funding because the US is under pressure because of the choices made and priorities
Green explicitly supports the efforts and achievements of UNESCO in the field of sustainable
development, fight against discrimination, solidarity and international dialogue. The special attention which also
UNESCO has for Africa, we endorse. Just because of that agenda, both the Flemish and the stay
Federal government support UNESCO. (V, F)

DEVELOPMENT
Development has undeniably contributed to more than two billion people between 1990 and
2010 had access to potable water, child mortality has been halved to 31 million more girls are enrolled in
education than in 1999. Smallpox was eradicated, the number of children dying from diarrhea fell by half and
Meanwhile, 188 countries are polio-free. In Sub-Saharan Africa, where the number of extreme poor has increased from 205 to 414
million in the past three decades, donor countries make the difference between life and death.
A central issue for Green is that global inequality between countries or may have decreased though, the internal
income and wealth inequality has now risen in many countries. Thus, two thirds of all poor live in
Emerging countries such as China, India and Indonesia - emerging economies that achieved good growth figures. Growth is only so
not able to poverty to help out the world. Green sees an important role for development cooperation
the regulatory and redistributive role, through capacity building, the establishment of social protection floors and
proper collection of taxes.
A second issue for Green is set in the declining dependence on aid from the South. Official
Development still represents only a small part of the North-South financial flows. For
However, the poorest and most vulnerable people continue to official development desperately needed, not least
because it is a predictable source. Saving is therefore short-sighted and does not demonstrate a sustainable policy. For Green's
reaching the 0.7% of GNP to pure development is not just a moral imperative, it is also implementing
a law voted among some green in 2002. The right to development is also a fundamental human right,
which can be guaranteed for many of the poorest only through development. Finally
we have everything to gain from the countries of the South are working up and integrate into the global economy. Who in their own country
get perspectives flight not to rich countries (or regions). The same goes for climate refugees and the fight against
climate change.
The absence of peace, security, democracy, respect for human rights and political stability, but also corruption
and human rights violations, prevent poor countries develop their full potential.
In time, the domestic tax revenues in developing countries, the need for
Replacing development. Official development remains still critical
interest for the financing of essential services and improve the lives of the poorest, especially in the
Least Developed Countries (LDCs), where development in some cases, still accounts for more
than 10% of gross national income (GNI).
In the priorities Green to push for policy coherence is a common thread. Development that does not
flanked by fair international trade rules and fair distribution of national resources is a
drop on a hot plate. In addition, Green emphasizes capacity building and supporting role
development, mainly by strengthening civil society locally.

PRIORITIES OF THE DEVELOPMENT
113. Green is in favor of promoting and contributing to sustainable and inclusive economic growth
developing countries, provided that it is associated with redistribution of wealth, and without
that the carrying capacity of the earth are exhausted. The new law imposes on development cooperation
connection insufficient. Redistribution of wealth is a necessary condition for growth of a
useful to make instrument of development. Without government intervention the additional prosperity trickles
Indeed, insufficient to the weakest in society. (F)
313

114. Development cooperation can support a social revolution with developing countries on by in
create decent work, basic services and, from the Belgian expertise to assist in the development of
a social security system. The expansion of social protection base would in many
middle income countries however only a few percentages of GNI costs. Belgium is her expertise
bets, and with resources and technical assistance, cooperation with developing countries for social
protection floors to build. (F)
115. In order to combine growth and redistribution through taxation, Belgium plays a pioneering role in the development of a
just and balanced international tax system and the dismantling of bank secrecy to
avoid financial flows through tax havens to escape from the developing countries. The
developing countries walk each year between 660 and 870 billion euros in lost revenues due to illegal
capital flight, mainly due to tax evasion by multinational companies. Belgium investigates the
impact of tax treaties with developing countries shut the tax revenues
developing countries. Bilateral treaties to avoid double taxation must not lead to double
non-taxation. Multinational companies have to report their tax activities, gains and losses country-by-country
to detect tax evasion. (F, E)
116. About one billion people are malnourished. Malnutrition in developing countries each year costs the lives of 2.6
million children. The right to food is central and therefore focuses on development cooperation
sustainable agriculture (small scale agriculture and livestock) and fisheries, the right to food sovereignty, and
we act against land theft and unscrupulous speculation on food.
117. Fighting corruption is one of the priorities of the Belgian development policy. Corruption is the
development of poor countries in the way. Especially the poorest of the poor are severely affected by corruption. Green
wish that our country, like the Netherlands, the issuing of a notification requirement for our diplomatic staff
suspicions that a Belgian company commits fraud or corruption in developing countries. In
developing countries that score poorly on corruption we are reluctant in giving
budget support. (F)
118. Good governance is a priority of the Belgian Development Cooperation. Green is in favor of the
allocation of additional resources for development linked to the achievement of measurable
objectives of good governance. With this incentive tranches (IT) we stimulate political dialogue and
we support the national reform agenda of the partner. A portion of the funds raised through IT
can be earned, should be given to processes that the development of 'good governance'
support. (F)
119. Green wants to work on gender mainstreaming and gender equality in the Belgian
Development. We must ensure that at least half of the additional resources
development in the years to have a real impact on the creation of gender equality in
developing countries. 70% of the arms are women. Women are still often victims of violence
and discrimination. Therefore, the development of means to be used to better
education and equal opportunities for girls and women to pursue. (F)
120. Green also wants development pays special attention to the funding of
programs in the South in the area of ​​sexual and reproductive health and rights, including
relational and sexuality education, including the building of tolerance towards gays,
and access to information and to modern forms of contraception. (F)
121. Children are a focus in all Community policies and programs of development cooperation. The
file managers and attachés for development get clear instructions and tools
monitoring and evaluation in order to put the child rights approach in practice. (F)
122. The number of partner countries of Belgian bilateral cooperation is limited to 18 countries.
Green will ensure that any reduction or substitution of partner countries, fragile states or
LDCs are not disadvantaged in favor of the inclusion of middle-income countries
which our country wants to establish diplomatic relations with it or improved trade relations. The parliament
performs the final say on the choice of partner. (F)
123. Green wants to guarantee the long-term resources for academic development because they
investing in human capital in developing countries. (F)

PERFORMANCE, autonomous and informed
DEVELOPMENT
124. A thriving private sector in developing countries is a positive development role when jobs
creates, pays a fair share of taxes and selling goods and services of high quality. The
Belgian Investment Company for Developing (BIO) must withdraw from investments in
314

125.

126.

127.

128.

129.

130.

131.

132.

133.

projects that are not relevant for development. The minimum annual yield requirement may
Development relevance as a selection criterion not overshadow. BIO must invest in small local
companies that meet local needs, create local sustainable jobs and fair
Taxes paid to the developing country in which they operate. (F)
Green thinks best development remains a federal responsibility. In consultation with the
Belgian and European governments, the regions may take initiatives, provided that such federal
powers not erode. Fragmentation of the funds in question reduces efficiency. The Flemish
Government, in cooperation with the sector, looking for a long-term vision and a credible
financial commitment, because just like the federal government, the Flemish government promised
development efforts in the Flanders in Action Pact 2020 not after. (F, V, B)
Governments need to prepare impact analyzes before making decisions on trade and finance,
climate change, food security, migration and security. The decisions of these impact analyzes
transparently communicated. If necessary, government decisions are adjusted with a view to the
Ensuring their coherence for development. (F, V, B, E)
Development policy must remain an autonomous policy, with an autonomous budget and its own minister or
European Commissioner ensures that development can not be subordinate to other political and
economic goals. Green wants a Minister for Sustainable Development and Development Cooperation which
in Belgium the interests and needs of billions of people defended the south. He or she is the ambassador
of those without voice in our governments and in the international summits. Coherence of
policy in favor of development should not get bogged down in the coherence of development cooperation at
favor of Foreign Affairs, Trade and Defence. (F, E)
Development should not be used to support Belgian companies. The financial
resources, in whatever form, shall be provided as part of official development assistance,
should be completely untied. (F)
To be effective, the democratic ownership of development
strengthen developing countries, adapted to their policies, procedures and management systems and needs
more coordination needed between the donors to the democratic ownership by the partners. Belgium must
ensure that its cooperation is predictable and Belgium as well as developing countries bear
responsibility for achieving good results. Our development must
focus on a limited number of countries, themes and sectors in which we can excel. (F)
Development should not be instrumentalised by the Minister for Asylum and Migration
return arrangements for migrants from developing countries to enforce. Development cooperation must
based on the real needs of developing countries and not the interests of the developed
countries. That leads to problematic situations, such as the years of European support for Colonel Gaddafi from
Libya was prepared to take on the Libyan territory the passage of North African immigrants on their way
block to southern Europe. Human rights violations, lack of democracy and rule of law in
Libya EU squeezed for decades turned a blind eye. (F)
In addition, Green permanent and thorough evaluation of development which requires not
only the successes but also the challenges and problems are reported. Evaluations should
lead to adjustment of the policy. Development work must also result oriented. (F, V, E)
Green wants the Belgian Development Cooperation invests in research on development policy.
The choice to bet on research is fundamental. Research can lead to new technologies and
better ways to help the poorest people in the world and contribute to increased efficiency of
Development. (F)
Ensuring the efficiency and scientific basis of the allocation of development resources should be
however not result in Belgium and developing donor risks, alerts and investing more in
infrastructure projects and interventions that are quickly visible, but are not sustainable. Green fully recognizes
taking risks is an essential part of development cooperation. Therefore Green also pleads
within the global budget for development cooperation in performing a budget for a risky
financing of projects, the outcome of which is uncertain. (F)

BETTER COMMUNICATION AND MORE PARLIAMENTARY MONITORING
134. Green requires that strategic decisions on development cooperation (such as the strategy and
The choice of the partner countries) submitted to and approved by parliament. (F)
135. Green wants to strengthen reporting to Parliament through the minister not in the annual assessments
just pay attention to the results achieved, but also the problems and challenges of the
Development Cooperation. Only by being transparent and honest communication can support it at
315

the public development cooperation are maintained. In addition, the annual report must include recommendations
formulated to strengthen policy coherence in favor of development by the results of
discuss the preliminary impact analyzes, and to go into how we manage our quantitative
target of spending 0.7% of GNI to official development will bring. (F)
136. An effective development can not exist without strong field of players. Green therefore wants
role of civil society in us and in the south, supporting and strengthening a strong midfield is
essential to monitor the policies of the governments in developing countries. The local NGOs
can call governments to account and exert pressure to spend the funds properly. She
deserve our full support. (F, E)
137. Green also wants to further support the existing and rich diversity of actors. Besides NGOs
are universities, local governments, trade unions, academic institutions and specialized
associations active in government subsidies. That should remain so. Each actuator must be able to act
according to its specific character and vocation. Autonomy and diversity are strengths. (F, V, B)

PURELY BUDGET
138. Green wants our country stops to save on the back of development and 0.7% of its GNI
spend on official development aid. We stand for a generous development policy. Also
in times of crisis, Belgium and Europe remain one of the most prosperous countries and regions in the world. Solidarity is
an ethical and sustainable choice. By law (2002) anchored effort to spend 0.7% of GNI
to development is very reasonable. The past term, this objective was never achieved.
In 2013 stranded the Belgian aid, including the Flemish contribution, less than 0.47%, the lowest figure budget
in this reign. The backlog (realized ODA versus 0.7% GNI) caused by traditional
parties is huge, 852 million and growing. We can not make up suddenly. Green wants to
gap in consultation with and with respect for the spending capacity of the actors
Development close on the property at the end of the legislature. (V, F, E)
139. Green Advocates, furthermore 0.7% pure development to be truly effective. The Belgian
Development, after all, also contains a number of budget tricks and improper expenditures, such as
debt forgiveness or the reception of refugees during their first year in Belgium to the Belgian
help figure inflate without the population in developing countries will benefit from this. Green check
an audit of the outstanding debt of developing countries in Belgium, and calls for further remission
it, but the waiver must be additional to Official Development Assistance (ODA). Therefore attempts
removing our country in the OECD such improper expenses as ODA billable expenses and
it resists the attempts of other countries to humanitarian military operations, the fight against
terrorism or recognize the reception of asylum seekers as development expenses. (F)
140. Green wants the Flemish, Brussels and Federal contributions to climate finance not to count as
Development. Climate finance must be additional to previous commitments on opposite
the field of development cooperation. New commitments, new resources. That is clear. (F, V, B)
141. New and innovative financing is needed to declining budgets for development cooperation to
catching, but also to meet the increasing international obligations. These new sources must
predictable and stable over time, in the case of taxes through multi-year commitments. They should also be
sources as possible to tackle the negative effects of globalization and market failures. They have to comply
the Paris Declaration of Principles in 2005, the Accra Agenda of 2008 and Busan Aid Effectiveness of
2011. To demonstrate that resources are new and additional, it must be proven that they are due
a public initiative. The Financial Transaction Tax (previously 'Tobin tax') is excellent in this regard
instrument, but Green wants Belgium to not lay her eggs in one basket. Is a mix of instruments
necessary. (F E)
142. Blending, combining development (grants, technical assistance and interest rate subsidies) with
loans from development banks and private lenders, seems to be an important modality. There is
However, a great lack of transparency and accountability. Moreover, development impact unclear. The
therefore mainly seems a welcome excuse for donors to give less ODA and perhaps also to the
supporting companies from the donor countries. Blending should be thoroughly evaluated for its
development impact (poverty alleviation), monitoring and evaluation mechanisms, debt sustainability and
alignment with national development strategies.

316
