Open VLD
Congress program
Flanders give wings.
As approved by the Program Congress on 12-13 April 2014 Open VLD
Election program May 25, 2014
p. 2/56 Foreword
It is time to move forward again. Time to leave the crisis behind us. The
foundations for recovery are laid. Numerous reforms have been deployed and the
Budget is again on the right track.
Now confidence returns, it is time to look to the future. To
ambition to prove, create jobs and move forward. In order to select for growth. We
want to grow. And we have a 5-5-5 growth plan to make it happen.
Open VLD has a crisp program because we voters
solutions to give instead of speculations and literature. Clear and
made proposals that leave no doubt about where we stand. True
do we need general principles into concrete numbers and proposals.
That is the mark of a brave party, and we want to be such a party.
The thread running through this program is clear: faith in the freedom of
people. We believe in people. In the judgment of men. The justice
of people. In the compassion of people. And in what motivates people.
We have enthusiasm in the future.
And starting on May 25,
Gwendolyn RUTTEN
President Open VLD
Open VLD
Election program May 25, 2014
p. 3/56 Open VLD
Election program May 25, 2014
p. 4/56 Our election compass:
Five indicators based on
our future statement.
In a manifesto read your practical suggestions and solutions
problems. However, the reality of the driving of a country is more complex and more
varied than we can provide in a program. In addition, a
program, the image that a lot as they pursue no compromise or
coalition should make. But in reality means govern agreements
Search partners. And agree on what that one alone.
There are certainly issues not covered in this text. Wants
does not mean they are not important, quite the contrary. But Open VLD wants from a
bright and clear vision and not leave with a cluttered catalog
with a thousand and one for couples to come. Our compass in negotiations and
Decisions are five clear indicators that describe the principles
which decisions and legal positions of Open VLD must meet. Based on
our Future Statement we determined five indicators which our party and
our elected officials will use the next few years in the decisions they
take for Flanders and the Netherlands.
Turn Signal 1: We believe in progress
Our decisions start from the belief that tomorrow can be better than
yesterday. We are advance optimists. We oppose defeatism,
acidification, patronizing and envy. We live in a country where it is good to live
and we want to not only keep it that way but also better. We believe that
Economic growth does not have to be finite and work and prosperity can grow
without this being at the expense of going to have to be someone else.
Turn signal 2: We rely on the strength of
free people
Above all, we rely on the power of free people. Self-determination is
us a core value. Because we trust in the power of people,
human rights, privacy, and strengthening the pillars of our constitutional
conviction. What people do for themselves and for others can do better and
effective than what the government can do. Therefore, we ask ourselves at every
decision on whether the government should do so itself.
Open VLD
Election program May 25, 2014
p. 5/56 Turn 3: We believe more in principle than in
rules
The more lines you make, the less people themselves feel responsible
for society and for their own behavior. For too long governments have the reflex
had to make choices in the place of men, over their heads
go. It is easy to see from the fact that we have a particularly comprehensive and
have detailed legislation, without which rules on clear principles
shod. Principles are stronger than rules. By opting for fewer rules
and less patronizing we give free citizens the tools necessary together
faire to make appointments.
Turn signal 4: We reward performance, but let
no one behind
People are not equal, they have equal value. Therefore everyone deserves a chance
to make something of his life. We want economic independence for many
number of people and found that those who perform, also they should not be rewarded.
As many people as possible participate in the social and economic
process, we are all better for it. But we leave no one behind. For
people unable to keep, we feel a responsibility together. For them
we provide care and opportunities to participate part in our society.
5 Turn signal: We think European and
international.
We are building an open society. We live in a time with less and less
borders and increasing opportunities which we are all connected to each other
are. Our economy is open and therefore dependent on what happens in the rest of the world
happens. Europe is becoming more inland. International Trade and Cooperation
are keys to a world with fewer conflicts. Internationalization is a
given that the opportunities and benefits always outweigh the
bottlenecks and challenges.
Open VLD
Election program May 25, 2014
p. 6/56 I. GROWTH ECONOMY
The growth plan 5-5-5 Open VLD is a plan for increasing employment and
ensuring our prosperity. With 5 billion growth-enhancing tax cuts
who works, has worked and is working longer, we will work again
attractive. The same amount is used for those who work provides, in order to get
entrepreneurship, ambition and stimulate job creation. Resources
this we get out of reforms and cutbacks in government amounting
5% of the domestic product. In this way we realize growth and
competitiveness, which we our care and our pensions for the future
secure. With select the Open VLD for ambitious growth plan 5-5-5 without pain
measures implemented from day one ..
Today, 68% of the population of working age (20-64 years old) to work. That
its 4.5 million workers. In the context of the Europe 2020 strategy, the Belgian is
target 73.2%. That means that in 2020 about 300,000 people
should be more at work than today. Based on the projections of the
Federal Planning Bureau will by 2020 at constant policy 194.000
employment recover. Open VLD will top 100,000 as additional to the
work..
Opting for a comprehensive approach
To achieve that objective, the 5-5-5 growth plan focuses on five levers:
•
Activation of job seekers
•
Facilitate combining work and family
•
•
Brakes remove the labor market
Workers little longer keep working
•
Earn more for those who work or have worked and less burden on those
work gives
We realize this plan to re-pumping the necessary oxygen into our economy.
In this way we make our country competitive again towards key
neighbors and we motivate people to work through work incentives
make.
The target of 100 000 extra jobs, mainly in the private sector,
reach chooses Open VLD for a comprehensive approach. We are taking action on both the
federal and at the Flemish level. With the Sixth State Reform gets Flanders
many economic levers for. We work together, the sixth state reform
with the regions and the federal government further and we adjust it where necessary. We
ensure that Flemish measures strengthen the federal and vice versa. On that
way we get the maximum impact from available resources. We will focus on the
stimulating entrepreneurship, activation of the unemployed, obviating
brakes on the labor market, improving the reconciliation of work and family
anyone holding a little longer to work.
Open VLD
Election program May 25, 2014
p. 7/56 We finance this plan by limiting the growth of government expenditure to the
health index. Expenditure is thus indexed, but the government will
efficient with its resources should show more than under unchanged policies. Because of this
to sustain, the government spending towards the end of the legislature falls below
50% of GDP. With this we bring the fiscal house in order we can create a
surplus for the cost of aging and we reduce the burden on citizens and
Employers with 5 billion. Moreover, we start from day one because the
economy of our country does not lose any day. Where possible, we use the
tax instead of grants. We finance this plan by governments at all
levels deep and planned to slim down.
Unemployed support faster and activate
Open VLD wants to help as many people without jobs to work. Work makes
people happier and more prosperous. In addition, our philosophy is clear:
support anyone who falls out of work and want to work, we help who have no job
can find and are strictly for the minority who do not want to work. That philosophy
to bring the practice, we provide a three-stage rocket.
Unemployment can happen to anyone. The reform of the
unemployment insurance by the current government, we have ensured that
unemployed the first 3 months receive a higher payment, but from then begins
or to run the degression.
In the 1st year of unemployment assistance is crucial. We provide a personalized
job coach for every job seeker, but also for school leavers (during their 12
months of professional integration time). We put so immediately and in full on
education and training. This requires close cooperation between education, VDAB
and business world needed to increase the number of traineeships, especially for young people
(cfr. European Youth Guarantee). We promote an entrepreneurial course at
jobseekers.
In the 2nd and 3rd year we want those unemployed for stricter monitoring. For youth
under 30 years is getting a switching dependent on benefits
made resumption of study, training or internship. The term 'appropriate
employment 'is abolished. From the third year to be unemployed even
asked to take on a job where she asset-two half days a week
perform community service.
From the 4th year the unemployment stops put. But let people
not to their own devices. There are now several options. If it is difficult to get into the
regular labor market to find a job, we should make efforts to remove other
to find solutions (eg. in the social economy). An unemployed person a living wage
request comes eg. in the guidance of art. 60 and maintains its social
skills thanks to an asset-job.
The asset-job restores social skills
When a person 24 months of unemployment we asking for one "asset-job 'on
take, meaning that they work two half days a week for the
community. More than a service for the community, this is a way
to keep the social network and social skills sharp so as the odds
Open VLD
Election program May 25, 2014
p. 8/56 to keep open at a new job. The job seeker can freely choose which type
asset-job, from visiting seniors, reading or supervision in schools, help
in associations and other social tasks. A job seeker must
diverse choices enabling them to find a job that matches assets
his skills and interests. An asset is not a job but a useful pestjob
contribution that matches personal ambitions. Assets jobs are organized
by municipalities, healthcare, education and social life. The current
system of individual training is the ideal link between an asset-job
and a regular job.
Brakes on the labor elimination
Who wants to work should work. We make occasional work and overtime
a package more attractive to employers and employees. To easily and flexibly
can earn, we introduce a system of flexi-jobs. Who at least part-time
works as a tax exempt can earn something extra. Who is also retired,
allowed to earn without the pension being reduced. That opens a lot
Perspectives for example. labor-intensive sectors. We simplify the system
of grants of non-recurring result-related bonuses. The status of
student work will be further eased. Days are calculated in half-day or
hours so that more can be done. The quota is 50 days
doubled to 100 days.
Because the needs of businesses are never identical, want to get into Open VLD
dialogue with social partners to reform the social dialogue direction
Scandinavian model to implement. The social partners have to
company level much freedom to make arrangements, without an imposed mandatory
straightjacket of interprofessional and sectoral social dialogue.
We foster a better connection between education and the full
labor market by including a modernization of the system 'part-time learning. Acquired
competencies must be valorized easier. The government has
to play a leading role clear. Through targeted training and
training initiatives and screening of Flemish jobseekers
bottleneck vacancies filled up. The broadcasting sector, preferably by
tendering, involved in the interpretation of these bottleneck vacancies.
Facilitate combining work and family
We are in favor of greater individual freedom for workers to their
determine working hours in consultation with the employer. Because of the longer
careers we are working on 'workable work' and a pleasant working environment.
Employees who have autonomy over their work and working conditions (in
which function well), are more motivated and more productive. We want to
also promote modern working methods such as teleworking and schoolbelcontracten.
Families experience daily how difficult it is to combine a job with the
care for a family. With the 5-5-5 growth plan we put in to simplify
of this combination. Therefore, we increase the supply of childcare places by
private child care to give more space. File through an ambitious approach,
we reduce the number of hours lost in traffic jams for the benefit of our families. We
support our families to remain fiscally encourage through service vouchers and
Open VLD
Election program May 25, 2014
p. 9/56 We support the creation of service platforms which jobs between
private individuals, in white.
Motivate workers to remain at work
People may not redeem the role of the labor market, because the longer they are inactive
are, the worse the prospects for a new job. Open VLD wants a reason
activation policy in which all people can be motivated to work
to find work. The Flemish activation policies currently shooting clear thereby
too short. With only 42% belong to the activity level of the Flemish people aged 55
lowest in Europe. Open VLD wants this percentage up. -55s have a
wealth of experience which can be used on the labor market. By
(para) fiscal measures, we ensure that over-55s remain attractive
for employers. Tax cuts that provide purchasing power to motivate 55plussers to stay longer in the workforce. Persons with disabilities need access
get into the regular labor market.
Currently, there are dozens of job plans, which often miss their target by.
Open VLD wants oriented Security discounts with the focus on two groups:
young people and the over 55s. In addition we have less seniority weigh in
wage formation and strengthen the bond between years worked and final
pension. We have the system of unemployment with company
(early retirement) extinguished and put on offering formulas which older
employees can opt for a lower pressure against an adjusted
wages. When partial disability Open VLD wants to work with
facilitate and encourage.
Lifelong learning is essential in the development of the knowledge society. Open VLD wants
that concrete measures are to achieve the 2020 targets.
Earn more for who works or has worked with
less burden on whoever gives work
In the 5-5-5 plan for growth we are taking various measures to activate people.
But there must also be sufficient jobs. Therefore wants Open VLD
measures to encourage employers to hire more people. Let's do that
by reducing labor costs by 5 billion euros. We put efforts
of the current government further and take additional measures on top of that our
wage handicap to slash at the end of the legislature.
Given the budgetary possibilities, especially for the period 2015-2016,
We phasing these measures for the duration of the legislature. Open VLD
thereby fully used the powers Flanders after the Sixth
State reform will have to strengthen the existing measures.
Reduction of the overall labor costs at federal level
The competitiveness pact is already decided at the end of the legislature
reduce labor costs by 1.35 billion euros. Open VLD carries the pact fully
and strengthens the year 2017 by reducing additional wage costs. This
We do this through the employer's social security contributions to reduce linearly by 1% per year
Open VLD
Election program May 25, 2014

p. 10/56 33% to 30%. Concretely this means a reduction of 1 billion euros per year
year, at the end of the legislative period an additional wage cost reduction
means of 3 billion euros.
Reduction of labor costs for young people and over-55s at the Flemish level
The sixth state reform the regions themselves are responsible for
labor market, including the management of the various employment schemes and
target measures. The more than 30 existing target actions we are
gradually get to two simple Security discounts: one for those under 30
and one year for people over 55 years. We attract these two groups
an additional 650 million euros to reduce the burden.
Besides the additional wage costs fall, we also reduce the administrative burden
for entrepreneurs. Indeed settle directly to the Social Security rebates will Open VLD
via the Dimona declaration to the NSSO based on the age and the gross salary of the
employee.
More purchasing power for who works and has worked
In addition to reducing the burden on those who give work, we also want those who work and
messing up getting paid less tax. Therefore we raise
disposable income. That gives people additional purchasing power and stimulate
consumption and private investment, key drivers of our economy.
Second, we encourage people to go to work or to stay by the
difference to create a larger allowance. Therefore employment which rises
again is good for the economy and for supporting the aging population costs.
At the federal level reduces and simplifies the Open VLD people through the tax system
elimination of tariffs in the three entities, viz. 30%, 40% and 50%. On that
way we realize that no more than half of his or her earned
income to the government should cede. Therefore we also ensure that people
have more purchasing power, which is good for the economy. Federal we want so
only two rates on hold, namely 25% on taxable income up to about
20 000 euro and 45% on the portion above.
Given the budgetary constraints, the abolition of the three rates are not in one
to realize step. That is why we have opted for a phased abolition. We begin
Immediately in 2015 with the 30% rate should be abolished and gradually increase
minimum limit of the 40% rate. It will cost 4.1 billion euros
cruising speed in 2019.
At the Flemish level, we have after the Sixth State Reform about the opportunities
and means to also grant tax reductions, both citizens and
employers. In the 5-5-5 plan for growth, we also use these new powers
Flanders, by the end of the legislature 1 billion Flanders
tax cuts to be granted, especially for those who work or have worked. We do
by reducing the surcharges.
Open VLD
Election program May 25, 2014
p. 11/56 Works also pays for your retirement
We reform the pension system further so that their retirees
standard of living can be maintained. Thereby the legal
pensions of workers, self-employed and civil servants to one another
converge so that every retiree can enjoy an equivalent pension.
The pension will be further individualized. The difference between
married or legally cohabiting in pension legislation expires. When
legally cohabiting or married partners split up, the pension will they
have built jointly under both partners are distributed.
The statutory retirement age will remain at 65 years. The effective age at which people
stop work amounts to about 59 years. We raise the effective
retirement stepwise so that we in the direction of legal
evolve retirement. The longer a person works and the more he contributes
to the system, the higher the pension. Making work pay, too
for retirement. The reformed pension system will, therefore, to a sufficient extent
based on the insurance principle and will work activating.
The accrual of pension rights without work is further reduced. Anyone who is sick
makes himself sick or take maternity or parental leave, remains in each
event or earn pension. For those who freely choose to less
work or who are long-term unemployed, the pension is slowed. The
career length will also be important in determining the starting date of the pension and
therefore can not be separated from how long we live. Every career choice
an impact on the pension, both the legal and the supplementary pension.
Therefore citizens will be given the opportunity to get online at any career choice
To do a 'pension' key.
Active Seniors bring more prosperity
The more active older people are, the more prosperous a country. Economic research and
foreign practices show that higher employment of the elderly
leading to increased youth employment. Pathways to early retirement
be reduced and incentives to remain active strengthened. Once up
the eligibility requirements for a full state pension, which is pension
automatically distributed. It allows you free to enjoy your retirement, to
continue to work or to earn. Those who do not meet the conditions for full
meets statutory pension, supplementary pension rights can build up even after the
statutory retirement age.
The system of unemployment with company goes out. Companies in
Restructuring the freed-up resources to invest in guidance and
training for a new job. Lifelong learning becomes second nature. In place
by focusing on benefits for people who are at home, we are investing in
working conditions. The Flemish experience Fund (ergonomic adjustments on the
workplace for 45+) is simplified and strengthened. We expect
employers that they not write off older workers, but remain in investing.
A sustainable company is a company that older workers opportunities
displays.
A strong pension system has a strong second pillar. The structure of this pillar
will, with attention to the weaker sectors, are strongly encouraged. At
Open VLD
Election program May 25, 2014
p. 12/56 bargaining will use a portion of the salary range for a
supplementary pensions are encouraged, with opt-out option, so for all
Workers can be achieved sufficient coverage. The build-up of charges
in the second pillar should be able to count on guaranteed returns.
We therefore construct the supplementary pension further including the
European Commission and recommend the OECD. Workers should have the opportunity
to allocate a portion of their income to strengthen their complementary
pension. Through a cafeteria plan, they can also choose other
complementary social security coverage as a higher guaranteed income at
sickness and health insurance. Self-employed have the same opportunities as
workers to build a supplementary pension. Pension savings remains
supported tax. This includes the acquisition of a home, in our
country's fourth pillar.
The end result of this reform should be that many more people longer to
continue to blow, making pensions remain affordable and giving them a higher
pension will build up than is the case today. In this way we build a
socially and financially sustainable pension system.
Respect and space to do business
Who takes, creates added value for themselves and for others. Successful
business must pay and deserves respect. The government must in its
regulations and contacts based on confidence in entrepreneurs. A
business-friendly government sets a good example and paying her bills
on time and in any event within 30 days.
The opening hours of shops are flexible. The mandatory closing time of 20h
will be extended until 22h so evening shopping is legally possible as well as
Sunday shopping.
We continue to work on a thorough administrative simplification, in
including a unique office regarding all administrative procedures.
It makes no sense to make work as we create jobs not
stimulation. We do this by reducing the burden on labor by five billion euros.
Given the budgetary constraints we implement these measures gradually and
we vote the new powers of Flanders and the federal measures
alternate.
Entrepreneurs and self-employed earn legal certainty and a stable fiscal
climate. We conclude a fiscal pact between the various authorities, including the
municipalities and business. The pact translates the commitment to reduce the burden to
reducing the wage handicap and work out. It ensures a stable
business climate and in a charter also lays the solid contours of the way
which the tax authorities and businesses interact. Ecocheques etc. can be
abolished, but maintaining the net benefit for the employee.
The fiscal and social inspection work on a charter that mutual
guarantees respect for inspections, the entrepreneur is not approached as a potential
suspect and where the power and the resources they can use to
Inspections in no circumstances be based on decisions of which ex officio
otherwise due is given to the independent judiciary, as
house searches or seizure.
Open VLD
Election program May 25, 2014
p. 13/56 We enhance legal certainty by the further expansion of the service tax ruling
However, where a binding deadline for response is determined. We draw
investors by maintaining the notional interest deduction. We guarantee
fiscal stability for either a fixed investment period. View
holdings and maintain headquarters in Belgium and to attract new ones, draw
we FDI exemption from 95% to 100%. International
tax avoidance counter, the tax works out a program of action against
abuse in the area of ​​so-called. "transfer pricing". The use of the general anti-abuse provision of Art. 344 CIR 92 should be clarified and tested in fine
by the judiciary.
We apply the bankruptcy legislation to give entrepreneurs a second chance sooner
to be able to give.
Open VLD is investigating whether a legal framework can be created for the
gradual introduction of a system of fiscal consolidation. Since become years
systems of fiscal consolidation used in virtually all industrialized
countries. Its introduction in Belgium should therefore allow the Belgian groups
placing a competitive same as those of the foreign groups.
By stricter capital requirements for banks, it is difficult to get long-term funding. Open VLD wants to continue on the path they used to be struck by
both federal (Law financing SMEs) and Flemish level (banking plan). We want
raise the tax benefit of the win-win loan. This loan is a successful
instrument proved to provide companies with financing through family and
acquaintances. We also want crowdfunding a real alternative
make financing tool for (starting) companies. For this we want the
remaining barriers in the field of regulation of financial products
calories. We provide a separate exemption from withholding tax on
interest on stocks and bonds, without touching the withholding
and tax relief on savings accounts.
We are examining the possibility to allow SMEs to opt for a
simplified corporation. This is a simple and reduced SME rate
without notional interest deduction or specific deductions.
Open VLD will give SMEs the opportunity to profits in the company
remain partially exempt from taxes until the moment that the profit
is paid.
We also create the opportunity to be a part of its profits annually
Book in a separate account by paying an advance taxation
of 10%. At the time of liquidation there will be on these reserves upon distribution to the
Shareholders no withholding tax payable.
In addition, we create the possibility of a portion of such an isolated
account surplus transferred -waarop an advanced taxation of 10% was to reverse pay penny dividend. Insofar as this dividend relates to reserves which
already booked five years (latched) on a separate account will
additional 5% withholding tax due at moment of payment.
Insofar as this dividend relates to reserves which are less than five years
Open VLD
Election program May 25, 2014
p. 14/56 made (snapped) in a separate account, there will be additional 15% withholding
tax will be due at time of payment.
An efficient and business friendly
licensing policy
The timely and efficient allocation of permits is to businesses and citizens
a core function of government. Often we find that activities or projects not
to start because the government does not make progress with the delivery of the 'necessary'
permits. Therefore Open VLD advocates an integrated approach
licensing which the government must be a partner of civilians and
entrepreneurs rather than an obstacle. This integrated approach is based on
following pillars.
Lex silencio for simple projects
If citizens want to build a house, they should get a permit from
government. The government has a legally defined time (for example,
planning permits is that 75 or 105 days) for a decision
include: positive or negative. As long as the government decides within that period, there is no
problem. However, if the government does not succeed in this legal
time to make a decision, for any reason whatsoever, then the is
refused permission. Open VLD can not do it that if the government does its job
does, citizens and businesses pay the price for this. Open VLD want this
reverse reasoning. The government is given the necessary time to make a well-considered
to make decision. But if they fail to do so, then is
license supposed to be approved. In this way, it causes failure of the
government not for additional costs for citizens or businesses.
Environmental permit rapid deployment to more complex
projects
Protracted procedures slowing too often new projects, which is harmful to
the competitiveness of Flemish companies. We are therefore in favor of
rapid implementation of the environmental permit, which environmental and
integrates building permit. We reserve two licensing authorities and
delegate powers in a coherent way. Open VLD, the Council wishes to
further expansion permit disputes so that the existing backlog is
eliminated and new files have a maximum duration of 10 months.
Rule-restricted zones
Entrepreneurs often encounter complex rules and procedures at startup
and / or expanding their operations. To encourage entrepreneurship, the can
government 'rule-restricted zones set. These zones (eg geographical area
typology or business) where certain regulations and procedures - temporarily - eased
or are not in force. We think for example of the economic storm
affected regions quickly new business and investors have attracted
be.
Open VLD
Election program May 25, 2014
p. 15/56 But it is more than geographical zones. Governments must trust
give to entrepreneurs. Thus, companies that already have a license,
float expand. The government makes use of ex-post controls
instead of additional licenses or she softens as the socio-economic
permit.
Power also involves Dutch model with customization zones
where the government with entrepreneurs sit around the table together to
optimizing regulation. The government supports entrepreneurs and thus will
together with them to prepare the permit. So entrepreneurs can
concentrate on their core business (entrepreneurship, produce and innovate), not
administrative obligations.
Accelerate major infrastructure projects by
permit by decree
We note that the previous legislature no major project in Flanders
was launched. This has to do to a great extent with the complicated
legislation prohibiting the whole project will be jeopardized if somewhere a
small technical defect. Open VLD advocates a serious and extensive input from
all stakeholders, including citizens, interest groups, local authorities, businesses,
... Before the preference decision. The government must take this
into account the comments of these stakeholders. But once a
preferred decision has been taken, will Open VLD that everyone loves it too.
For this reason, states Open VLD that after all participation opportunities have occurred
and the project is ready for a final decision, this decision
ratified by the Flemish Parliament thus giving them the force of law and certainly
can be performed.
Full status for self-employed
People who undertake independent stabbing their necks out and have rewarded
be. Open VLD has in recent years made work of social improvements
For self-employed and entrepreneurs, such as the alignment with employees
the minimum family pension, child benefit and the extension of the
bankruptcy insurance to certain cases of forced abandonment of
activities. We want self-employed status in consultation with the
continue to improve business associations and individual entrepreneurs
so they can continue adding value to our economy. The self-employed too
new mother must be supported in a similar way. The
Cinderella treatment she now has to stop. A support at
size of the self-employed, without being forced not to work!
Catering transform it into a growth sector
Our country has 50,000 catering businesses with 125,000 employees. With the
introduction of the registered cash register, the sector faces
transition problems, which can cost 30 000 jobs. The sector is high
high quality, is one of the strengths of our country, but unfortunately it is also economically
unhealthy.
Open VLD
Election program May 25, 2014
p. 16/56 Fraud can never be a legitimate economic system. Open VLD, the
hospitality businesses can use industry-enhancing measures.
Open VLD wants to introduce in the hospitality flexi-jobs, as described above. beside
there must be a specific and full-time lump-trade status with the catering staff unlimited extra pay, allowances, overtime and can receive tips
against a liberating rate of 25%. The registration of employment must
are integrated in the registered cash register to the administrative burden
illuminate. Companies must be able to choose for catering costs for a
motivated deduction of 100% when all catering expenses are motivated
their professional character. Companies can also opt for catering costs
are only 65% ​​deductible, if a business opts for the system without
motivation or disability.
Licences and basic requirements to open a catering business, subject to the
principle of "lex silencio positivo". That is, if the government
deadlines for an application for a permit is allowed to proceed without
answers, the catering business is in order. Recurring checks
bundled in one basic inspection is done on the same time. Civil servants
must carry out their controls in catering businesses with respect to the operations
and customers. The owners have the right to all first time during an audit
take care of customers. New or amended legislation that may imapct on
hospitality must be reasonable and proportional.
Liberalize agriculture

Farmers are entrepreneurs! The diversity and high degree of specialization of the Flemish
family agriculture and horticulture sector resilient and strong. We will ensure that
our farmers and horticulturalists have access to adequate and affordable
farmland and encourage investments to promote sustainability
to. We attach great importance to animal welfare, but maintain in return
investment and realistic transitional periods with a view to the economic
feasibility of the required adjustments.
With the Sixth Welfare State Reform is a Flemish competence.
In order to optimize the well-being of animals, taking into account the
legitimate interests of everyone, we want a dual approach whereby the
pursue the policy Animal welfare is administered by the
Department of Environment. As for the farm animals concerned belongs to the competence
at the department of agriculture.

To ensure a fair income for farmers, we must watch over a
fair pricing of agricultural products, eg through supply chain consulting. We
do risk management with affordable insurance against storms and other
natural disasters and ensure adequate fiscal stimulus. We support further
development of organic farming and the short chain.

Open VLD

Election program May 25, 2014

p. 17/56

Respect for our fishermen
Our fishermen have a heavy and irregular life. Their profession deserves more
respect. We encourage the development of sustainable and selective fishing techniques
to the impact of the requirement to land and the impending ban on discards
To cope, but also to prevent overfishing. We
promote research into energy-saving measures for production
to decrease. We provide a framework for the development of aquaculture and
mariculture enter Flanders form.

The creative economy as an engine for innovation

Open VLD Innovation is the engine for our future jobs and
prosperity. To grow, we need the courage to do things differently. Only the
development of new products, services and production processes ensure
sustainable economic growth. Regions that adapt the best and fastest way
new societal challenges have lead to a new
to capitalize market opportunities. The Flemish powers play a crucial
role in research & development (R & D). Flanders has joined the
Europe 2020 target of spending 3% of GRP in R & D, of which 1%
realized by the Flemish government and 2% by the private sector. The 3% level is
However, only a means, not an end in itself. We want an input facing a
Output focused innovation with a good balance between targeted and non-targeted
research. Because the preparation and implementation of research often takes years,
needs a stable growth path for at the start of the legislature are recorded in a
multi-year budget. Therefore, the incremental increase in the Flemish
public funding for science and innovation (1% norm) by decree,
where all forms of knowledge and valorisation in a balanced
way be developed. At the same time a new innovation pact is concluded
whereby the companies based in Flanders commit themselves to their R & D spending
further to increase (2% standard).

We want a radical rationalization, which we counter the fragmentation and
Initiatives are tested on their ability to innovate. What works well, can continue
exist. What does not work well, it is corrected or goes out. We will facilitate the
access to R & D tools for companies and knowledge institutions through
streamline the instruments and integrating the front offices of the IWT, the
Enterprise Agency, FIT and PMV. R & D grants are much more accessible
are SMEs. The definition of R & D project being relaxed and the
simplified administrative procedures.
The knowledge of our excellent knowledge is not sufficiently converted into
commercial applications. We want to eliminate this innovation paradox by more
cooperation, more demand-driven basic research, more innovation in SMEs (through
reduced administrative burden, increased resources targeted at SMEs). Also, the need
Innovation should be strengthened. An integrated policy approach
promote, powers should Economy, Science and Innovation, and Higher
Education to be brought under one minister. To facilitate spin-offs,
industrial zones and centers have the necessary equipment to start this a chance
give without administrative overhead.
Open VLD

Election program May 25, 2014

p. 18/56

The existing imbalance between the number of university professors
(ZAP) on the one hand and the number of doctoral students and post-docs on the other hand must
be eliminated by a priority to increase the number of academic staff positions. The
financing system of universities is revised with the mutual
comparing the performance of Flemish universities is replaced by the
Comparing the evolution of the position of each Flemish university compared to a
peer group of foreign universities.
We reserve the fiscal measures for researchers. The access to these
measure facilitates SMEs through government grants no longer
let roads in the assessment.

We want to encourage businesses in different ways to interact with
public knowledge institutions by a favorable tax regime for the expenses they
do to make (part of) research at these institutions
perform.

We believe that the manufacturing industry in our country can play an important role.
Belgium has an open economy and 85% of our national income we earn
export. At the same time a dynamic manufacturing industry creates many jobs. To the
To globalized economy of tomorrow must keep up our country are the place
where the manufacturing industry bet on innovative products with high added
value.
How we live, move us carry out our work, filling our free time, ... by
innovate the manufacturing industry can offer new solutions. But then we have
today in Flanders or train the engineers and technicians of tomorrow. That begins
in young people enthusiasm for technology and the relationship between technical education and
strengthen business now internships and competence centers
students can learn to work with the latest machines and technologies.

Competitive production is an extension of strong innovation effort. The
further reduction in labor costs as provided in our growth plan for the
future of the manufacturing industry in our country therefore crucial.

Smooth and safe mobility in Flanders

Mobility is a basic condition for the development of the individual and the economy.
But we are still in Flanders. We have even been champions file, as shown by
international numbers. Flanders is currently the sad European record
59 file-hours per capita per year. All that traffic jams cost us billions of euros
prosperity. It puts our logistics assets and prosperity under pressure, gives the
commuters and citizens in general much loss of time and is not only detrimental to
our economy, but also for our environment and our health. Flanders
need a quick breakthrough with an effective anti-fileplan. Therefore chooses Open VLD
for a holistic approach with action along supply and demand side. Security is
a main focus.

Road safety is a priority. We reduce the number of road deaths by
2020 by 50%. Traffic Controls at times and places with an increased
safety incite safer driving, with the proceeds of
traffic fines integral invested in improving road safety. At the
construction of new roads, cycle paths and footpaths, as well as its maintenance, will

Open VLD

Election program May 25, 2014

p. 19/56

taking into account the safety impact. Innovative, safety-enhancing
vehicle accessories (adaptive cruise control, lane departure warning, E-call, ...)
be further encouraged. The insurance should be easily accessible
remain for new directors.
Open VLD is committed to the SAVE Charter
the association of Parents of Children Killed in Road Accidents letting in all municipalities
sign. Any accident is avoided, saving a lot of human
misery.

We make Flanders a bicycle land and investing in bicycle lanes and -
infrastructure. With fast cycle routes and boosting electric bikes
Cycling is a good alternative to long-distance and commuter traffic.

To meet our roads adapt to the needs of today, are targeted
Investment needed in missing links, but also in extra row space, new roads and
lanes. To accelerate these investments, a social
participation place prior to the preferred decision. We also accelerate investment
dynamic traffic management systems (with green waves and flexible
wegrichtingen), the maintenance of our roads, the settlement of accidents and the
optimization of the slip roads. In Antwerp, the largest Flemish
bottleneck forms, quickly adopted a series of temporary measures.

Investment in an efficient road network

To ease the pressure on our roads, we want a competitive and
demand oriented public transport. The government sets a clear framework for quality
for the organization of public transport and is not concerned with performing
it .. This must be contracted up to the private sector, both
financial and service level playing competition within the service standards
government defines. We will focus on the expansion of the range commuting. Local governments also have more control over supply
of public transport in their territory. Public transport should as much as possible
integrated and organized on a regional basis (by urban core).

The policy on collective transport has been too long and too strongly oriented fare.
Public transport policy accounts for almost 80% of expenditure to the mobility
government for its account while only 10% of the displacement of kilometers
be made by public transport. The customer has been in need of a
quality, punctual, reliable and comfortable alternative to car travel.
We reform the tariff policy and take into account people who need it
have targeted third-party payer systems and variable pricing. Basic mobility is
adapted so that it is more inspired by individual travelers than quantitative
criteria.
Employers need to expand mobility options for their employees
by offering them a tax-friendly multimodal 'mobility budget', rather
then tax breaks aimed at a single mode of transport. So we offer
workers a real choice between a company car and other means of transportation.
The telework shall be promoted.

Open VLD

Election program May 25, 2014

p. 20/56

II. FREE SOCIETY

Every person is unique. Many unique people together create a diverse society.
People are much more important than columns, structures and institutions. We choose
Therefore to focus on people in all spheres of life. Because
individual freedom is the engine of a society that advances again.
Individual freedom creates trust and engagement among citizens. To bet on
people are committed to education, because education is self-reliant people.
Betting on people's freedom of choice to promote well-being and care. Independent housing
to be accessible to as many people as possible. All the family are equal
treat. Ensure the right to self-determination. And the added value of culture
and valorize diversity.

Excellent teaching brings out the best
from everybody

Education in Flanders scores internationally still strong. Yet we lose
ground, at the top and the bottom. We let too much untapped talent and make
lot uniformity of education. One in seven young people leave secondary
school without qualifications, in cities, the school often doubly disadvantaged
than in the rest of Flanders, many young people choose the wrong
and study the socio-economic context of the family still determines
high school results and opportunities for upward mobility of young people in secondary
education. Our focus is on the growth of each child. Conversely, we get
less the top and ignoring that way opportunities. Especially in the modern
Time brains are our most important resource. Therefore, education for Open VLD is
a top priority in three main areas: enhancing primary and
optimize the transition between primary and secondary education, a focus on the
teaching staff and structural investments in school construction.
Children need to learn safe and aware from an early age to deal with the Internet. The
education regulations must leave room for local governments to a policy
size to be able to develop and provide adequate resources to this policy locally
to give shape. The urban problems requires special attention.

Open VLD steps in elementary education from the definition 'strong' and 'weak'
students. For us, all children "strong", even though they all have a different
special talent, "abstracting strong", "technically strong", "strong creative 'or' sporty
strong ', with no hierarchy between these talents. It is in the education that we
ample opportunity to bet on talent identification, talent development and talent orientation.
No hierarchy also means no waterfall. Extracting best out of everyone starts at
the earliest stage everyone involved and give equal opportunities. We cut
compulsory education up to 3 years and we have the consequences on the school pact
national pragmatic raise. In this way, children are immediately in a
environment in which they put the Dutch language as well as certain motor
skills can learn and therefore the academic backlog is limited.

Open VLD

Election program May 25, 2014

p. 21/56

Each child receives during his schooling own study portfolio. Are herein
competencies and tracked the achievements of the educational career. For the
management of this portfolio is subject to strict privacy rules.
Children and young people are discovering the right, play and learn fail.

Language teaching must remain a main focus throughout primary and secondary
education. No child should leave primary school without Dutch too
can read and write. The knowledge of at least two foreign languages
should be particularly encouraged. We therefore start much earlier with strange
language education. The use of foreign languages ​​should be stronger in the different
subjects are integrated. To this end, teachers should also have more
are supported in expanding their language skills.

Inclusive education can ease the pressure on special education, but
requires financial resources and time pressure capacity and training teachers in the
formal education to catch up.

Smart, non-structure-related measures
secondary education

Open VLD wants to strengthen first students and teachers, by intervening in the
basic education, and strengthening teacher education and teacher career,
before changing the secondary structures.

Structural changes in secondary education are not from above
imposed but are aimed to allow more customization. The
secondary reform of Open VLD is directed to less control and less
rules. We opt for more educational freedom and more customization, which is also better
connects to the organization of Higher Education. That is why we want to
big cities where school dropout rates and academic backwardness are very large, a specific
metropolitan policy tailored to the needs, in collaboration with the
facilitating educational networks.

We do not want uniformity in education. Anyone who wants can study longer
delay. Conversely, who is ready to choose to work immediately.

Besides knowledge, we also introduce competencies in secondary education. This
can be derived competence based learning outcomes and curriculum goals.

We make it possible for the general and technical education to better each other
vote. Concretely, students can choose between theory or technique, but
even for courses that combine elements of current directions. Because they
better connect with each other, we strengthen a holistic approach and we move away from
the prejudices and the hierarchy who lives unjustified. The translation of this approach
let's get to the school community and is not "Brussels" from above
imposed. ASO will remain abstract and theoretical knowledge priority, but we
give the opportunity to the students of the ASO to include more practical
courses to follow. Conversely, for students from technical courses
certain interests complement their skills with a more theoretical
support. Students who want to follow today the ASO or TSO's degrees,
will be doing so in the future.
Open VLD

Election program May 25, 2014

p. 22/56

Who wants to learn a profession, must be able to quickly and high quality. We give
vocational a full role in education. We invest in modern
teaching materials and reduce the distance between the school and the workplace more
to cooperate with the private sector. Open VLD also wants teachers partly
on the shop floor, partly in education. Also, there is a need for smaller
class groups for the general courses and cooperation in the higher years
VDAB, Syntra and the business world. should be better supported and elaborated
be. The apprenticeship is an integral part of our education system
customization. With these interventions, we want the choice of a vocational training
make positive choices. Students who opt for a work-focused training
should feel more than today that society needs them.

The final objectives of secondary education, both ASO, TSO and BSO have it
topics include "remembrance and education about the Holocaust and human rights."

Our education is efficient but puts too few entrepreneurs continue. We put in
on participation and entrepreneurship in education. We give schools freedom
This self-administered but add to the stimulating entrepreneurship
objectives of secondary education.

Teachers make a difference

Open VLD prefers to invest in teachers than in structures. We therefore choose
a stronger teacher education and teacher career. For example, more
practical and more masters in the teaching staff of primary education.
We are building the aspect of "diversity" along in the curriculum of the
teacher training and increase the number of practical assignments.

The training and further training of teachers should be strengthened. There should be more
and qualitatively better traineeships. We invest in the ability to
differentiated teaching and aspects such as learning to learn, social skills and
equal opportunities. To support this has achieved a 'Schools and Education'
is to be a regional center of excellence where entrenched practice
and academic knowledge are combined.

Open VLD wants more people to warm to become a teacher as an extension
or tail end of their careers in other sectors. People with experience can
enrich teaching and the profession. Education should manifest as a
challenging environment for older workers looking for a new challenge.
Starting teachers should post a better basic education, well-cushioned and
are supported in their early years in education. We therefore carry the
mentor hours back in, ensuring a permanent contact with the teacher and
via digital platforms, we make it possible for teachers to have more than
today to share material and good practice.

Investing in modern school buildings

Every child is entitled to a place in a school of your choice. That's why we put
Priority in more capacity in education, while giving special attention
Open VLD

Election program May 25, 2014

p. 23/56

to the needs in
education infrastructure.

cities.

There

is

distress

to

a

multi-year budget

Education in this new era demands instructuur and contemporary materials. We
therefore investing heavily in new school buildings and ICT. Cooperation with
Private sector is not taboo but an asset. The first wave of baby crèches and
today reached the primary schools will soon be felt in secondary education.
We anticipate that change by the infrastructure in secondary
to bring education up to date.

Even more than today must cities and municipalities can control how they
additional capacity to realize, so that plenty can be deployed on
synergies with other policy areas. We take the compartmentalisation
policy and vote the subsidy in different domains
better on each other so that projects can realized customized municipality or city
be.
We seize the opportunity to see school buildings along with other sectors. School
should be less 'islands'. We have sports and other activities better
Connecting to the school infrastructure and examine the possibilities between
schools and other facilities such as parking facilities or energy services to
parts. Regulations concerning school construction must take into account the
space limitations in cities

The schools of the future, even after school hours must be accessible
for the community.

Open VLD

Election program May 25, 2014

p. 24/56

Times change, families also

Freedom is a hollow concept if you can not choose with whom you live. For us,
any family form morally or legally superior. Therefore, we take the
taxation, social security and public services to the individual as a yardstick.
Our society now has plenty of family forms besides that of the classic
married heterosexual couple with two children. Rights Legislation needs and
guarantee obligations of all members of a family. We wish to include a
legal status for foster parents being denied certain rights and duties with respect
will grant the foster child.

Single people in Belgium are currently the most heavily loaded category of the whole
world. It can not be that people who remain voluntarily or involuntarily single and no
have children, this double thick and be punished. The government may indeed
punish neither fiscally nor socially sanctioned forms of society. Therefore you acknowledge
Open VLD also single people without children as a modern form of family. Open
VLD will propose measures to reduce the tax burden of single people.

A good balance between work and family

"Mommy or daddy -his' is the best job there is. But who wants that job raft
combine with a job, you sometimes have to conjure. Finding a balance
between family and work is a huge challenge for the present and future generations
mommies and daddies. We therefore make a context where both parents
financially and organizationally is easier for professional and private lives
combine.

Open VLD wants a nursery place for every child. Parents should enjoy
pregnancy and birth, instead of headaches in the queue of the nursery
to stand. To realize that we are giving more chance to free initiative. We encourage
care initiatives from tiny to professional, with regular or flexible hours
and with income-related pricing or free, giving parents the freedom to choose
have. Quality is of course essential. We measure it in a fair manner,
common sense and without excessive control drift so that autonomous private
initiatives are not crippled. So we provide more shelters and work
we waiting path through which parents can really make a free choice
the availability of childcare.

The Flemish decree childcare is in that respect a missed opportunity. By a
abundance of additional rules and regulations threatens the viability of yet
To get care facilities at risk. Rather than provide for
more places, we risk it just a lot to lose. Open VLD wants the decree on
hold out and make independent childcare initiatives better
enjoy support in their pursuit of accessible and quality care,
whether or not via the system of income-related parental contributions (IKG). So
we retain the existing ones and we also create a lot more.

More after-school childcare in schools should be possible. This requires
means are provided.
Open VLD

Election program May 25, 2014

p. 25/56

The regulations governing childcare must take into account the local
reality.

Kindergeld tailored to the stage of your needs

Child Benefit is a financial contribution by the government which meets a piece
the costs you incur to raise children. Today, the amount rises
per child as more children are in a family. We want basically for
new births turn around, so who takes the step to get children more
support than today get. We maintain an allowance for orphans and
children with special care. The amount of the child benefit continues to rise
as
children
parent
be.
We
reduce
the
number
payment institutions.

The grants should be due to the sixth state reform
be integrated into the child's money.

Service vouchers and a jobs platform

Service checks are a successful system that allows household chores like
cleaning, washing, ironing and cooking can easily and affordably outsourced
be. We fully advocate for the preservation and affordability for users
The service voucher. In any case, we limit the access to the system for
working people.

We organize a platform where people can help each other with small jobs.
We allow people to jobs up to 500 euros per month for someone
otherwise, or to leave home to do job work for the same amount. We are thinking here
for example
to
light
garden work,
tutoring
for
school subjects
or
Wednesday afternoon shelter. We start from the principle of helping hands and
Making of the chores platform a free system with random checking instead of
stifling.

Choose who inherits from you

Today the inheritance leaves very little choice far. Open VLD wants
Inheritance enabling each person to whom his or her rightful inheritance and wants in
Anyway lift the ban on concluding agreements as to succession. If that
principle becomes the norm, existing mandatory provisions can by the legislature
be kept to a minimum. It will also provide the necessary transparency,
because sometimes complicated system of reserved inheritances is precisely the
reason for a lot of tensions and quarrels within families. Parents of
care children should have more opportunities to tailor their schemes
child to work out in their wills.

A free inheritance means that inheritance taxes should not unreasonably high
are. We therefore propose to the "brothers and sisters" and "others"
(Today rates from 45% to 65%) to reduce tariffs. On the first disc into
50 000 euros, we propose 20%, the next disc to 250 000 euros we want
30% on the portion above 250 000 euro 40%. All previous reforms
Open VLD

Election program May 25, 2014

p. 26/56

of the registration, gift and inheritance tax has revealed that revenues
from these taxes rise if rates fall.

The government will take all the documents needed after a death, within a reasonable
term in order.

Of course we take into account the primacy of spouses want to give each other
what they have saved to share or even upon the death of one of the
partners, all to make the survivor. A couple builds gathering ability
on. Spouses can therefore decide to inherit free of each other, whereby
inheritance tax should only be reimbursed in the following erffase.
To facilitate the generation change in the agricultural land used by
long-term lease contracts are leased exempt from inheritance tax.

Open VLD

Election program May 25, 2014

p. 27/56

Their own home, their own home

Own home means freedom. Who can acquire a house, immediately acquires
also the best social protection and creates for himself a fourth pillar.
Therefore, we choose a policy that encourages people to take ownership of
a private home. Renovation and modification work on the home of the elderly
should be encouraged, guided and supported. The possibility for
Alternative formulas (updating of annuity sales and the introduction of
a reverse mortgage) will be investigated.
We therefore reduce the distribution right back to 1% and the rate set at 0% for
distribution in a divorce or dissolve a civil partnership.

Those who choose to rent or who hires because buying is beyond the capacity,
should have more choice. In order to make that possible, we have a stronger
private rental market needed.

Social housing is and will always remain a necessary safety net, but we want
that for many people may get a temporary nature. Public housing
A shift in housing policy that helps people improve.

We reserve the housing bonus

As a citizen you can choose between two systems: the living bonus or reduced
registration fees. You choose the system that best fits your needs and your
situation.

The living bonus for starters and young families

Starters and young families find it increasingly difficult a house or apartment
buy. Therefore we want the living bonus, linked to the tax benefit
mortgage retain. The living bonus thus remains preserved for new construction, acquisition
and renovation. Moreover, we also do not change the existing contracts.

The reduced registration fees of canceled mortgages

The registration fees of 10% will cost extra and the biggest obstacle to
Buying a property (and plot). We want people who buy a home, which
their own and only home will be a big push in the back by those rights
to reduce it to 5% for ordinary housing and 2.5% for modest homes. We
offer people their first house purchase, the chance of these rights
spread payable over ten years.
Whoever enters into a mortgage loan, it pays a tax of 0.3%.
This is an anti-social measure, because who will pay more to borrow even more so.
Therefore, we abolish the mortgage rights. We also make mortgage
collateral mobile, so you switch banks, not with a new
mortgage settlement goes hand in hand.

Open VLD

Election program May 25, 2014

p. 28/56

A strong private rental market is good for everyone
An avalanche of rules and legal uncertainty of the private rental market a
rest segment created. But who has no prospect of a fair return on their
investment, of course lets not. That's a bad evolution, because a faltering
rental market provides a decreasing supply and quality.
We want a rental policy that stimulates. Therefore, we are against a tax on real
rental income and more legal certainty for landlords - for example in
continuous non-payment by the tenant. We want to rent premium
tenants gradually expand with a weak earnings profile. The object which is
subsidy grant once someone one year on a waiting list for social
home state.

To increase the supply in the private rental market, we encourage more owners
to make the transition to the rental market. We reduce inheritance and
gift tax as heirs or donees choose the acquired property
lease for nine years.

Social housing as a transit to a private home

Everyone has a right to affordable and adequate housing, also who is struggling.
That's why we provide higher quality social housing. Also a social housing policy
can contribute to social mobility. We want people to go out. Therefore
we make it interesting for social tenants to buy their social housing.
Leases, we organize with contracts based on the 3/6/9-year rule. By
choose a rotation principle we reduce the waiting lists.
People who live in social housing, can count on the solidarity of the community.
Across from that right are also obligations in terms of coexistence, maintenance
and the correct payment of bills.

Modern ask families to modern forms of housing

The demographic face of our society is changing. A growing number of people
live alone, but together happens in more and more different ways.
A modern housing policy takes this into account and is inherently flexible. Therefore
we want a simple and accommodating administrative framework for formulas
meegroeiwoningen, cohousing, friends live and live kangaroo.

Open VLD

Election program May 25, 2014

p. 29/56

The patient as the linchpin of a modern
Health
We have a health care system that internationally highly regarded in our country
state. Both the quality and international standing we can preserve
and strengthen as we future-oriented reform. The waste and
to work out, we can exploit innovative drugs and technologies faster
repay. Every decision must be scientific and health economics
substantiated.

Access to quality health care for everyone is always for us
priority. That's why we want to seize the opportunities that linking all digital
provides data. We also opted for more cooperation in health care, so our
system for many years, efficient and remains affordable. For that reason we want
wager on the economic and jobcreërende potential of our health care system.

Convert data into value-added

More and more information is digital, even in the medical world. If we such data
can link together, and make the data compatible, we pave the way for
more quality and medical information. Caregivers may then data easily
share, and create a lot of knowledge for prevention and long-term research. The
consultation model should be dynamic and be extended to other
Relevant actors like patients and the medical industry. The big data from the
funds must be opened up to include government, healthcare,
research and medical industries, within the boundaries of privacy and
proportionality.
The spindle to which digital leap forward is the patient and his electronic Global
Medical Record (eGMD). EGMD it should be mandatory, but certainly the patient
Always on autonomous access to them.

Working together is smarter care

We sometimes spills with resources, and elsewhere we do not always use the full
capacity of our health care system. That's because too much is compartmentalized
organized. We want to eliminate, so that more caregivers and budgets
communicate and join forces. One modernization
Hospital funding is needed and paying health care providers for more
cooperation and quality. Private initiatives and entrepreneurship can a
lever forms in healthcare. We also respond to the evolution of
the question. We are living longer and therefore we need more care. Patients, for example. In
chronic conditions, have the opportunity to own care budget to
manage or be managed by a care manager. Even better mental
health care should give more support.

Open VLD

Election program May 25, 2014

p. 30/56

The empowered patient enacts
The structures in our health care system could use a facelift. The
decision-making is a complex tangle of levels of government and stakeholders to
Not all social developments absorbed as easily and much fragmentation
knows quite conservative and therefore deals with these evolutions. We want the industry
reform by opting for transparency, simplicity, and more democracy - more
participation of patients and patient organizations. The GP remains the key
player in the partnerships; he / she is the patient from cradle to
grave.
The consultation model should be extended to other actors such as the question
patient groups and the medical industry.

Valorize and export our know-how

Our country, the world's top medical. Innovative Health Technology
is embodied in us by thousands of SMEs and institutions such as IMEC. They
Creating the products and treatments of tomorrow. Therefore, we want policies
responds to entrepreneurship, innovation and the international dimension of the
medical sector.

Open VLD

Election program May 25, 2014

p. 31/56

Customized care

The right to make free choices does not stop when we are in need of care.
Also at this point we want as individuals control over our lives as much as possible
hold own hands. Each person knows best what he or she wants. Government
should therefore continue to make the shift from a supply-driven to a
demand-driven healthcare. This can be perfect when people the means in itself
hands have to organize their healthcare and finance. By means of a personal
care budget end funds will no longer directly from the subsidized
structures. So we create more choice and market forces in healthcare.

We need all initiative

Entrepreneurship in care should be given every opportunity. We have all the initiative
needed to bring the aging challenge to a successful conclusion. It should not matter
Do or facility has a public, or VZW Company Statute. What counts,
financial accessibility and quality of care. Over it is the
task of the government. Not for himself playing principal or the parcel sector
to secure a dominant position of dominant players.
A second argument for the dependent person as a director of care, and so on
a personal care budget, is that which anticipates the needs of the most
the elderly and the future. Times change, minds evolve. People want
as long as possible to live in their own environment. Thanks to advances
digital communication and technology capabilities will therefore
increase. Needing care themselves redeem their customized care will this evolution
only accelerate and further ensure a match between demand and supply.

Thinking beyond the disability

More than 20,000 persons with disabilities waiting in Flanders still on
adequate reception and care. In a prosperous region like Flanders is something really
a disgrace. However, addressing these waiting lists is not only a matter
are additional resources. We need the rudder too upset drastically. Our party
stood at the cradle of the Personal Assistance Budget in 2001. That gives people the
ability to organize itself with its own budget and pay and assistance
offers an alternative to care in a facility or institution. We ensure
that resident caregivers have adequate social protection.

After more than ten years of political procrastination we therefore want to take a big step further
in that direction. Through a personal care budget, we want not only assistance, but
all the care and support of persons with disabilities to fund. Sun
budget is determined on the basis of a care needs assessment and may cash or
voucher will be awarded. That choice lies in the need of care themselves. Here, too,
the credo that such funding bend the supply-driven in the sector to
demand-driven care to measure and thus freedom of choice can only
increase.

Open VLD

Election program May 25, 2014

p. 32/56

Home longer
Not only the sick, the person with disabilities or the elderly deserve care. Also
the people who care for them need support. Professionals
we help through administrative simplification and wage employment. We give them
more freedom by making the labor more flexible and by making sure
that they can concentrate on their core business. That motivation.

Carers, family and friends who volunteered to catch a need for care, build
through their statute paid rest periods and additional rights, regardless of the
employment status where they worry. Via a digital network, they are in contact with all the
links of the care facility, the grocer who delivers groceries to home,
the nurse and the doctor who regularly jump in, to the grandchildren
a game like cards. For a number of activities are protected by law
and they can fall back on mobile teams and expertise when it all a
bit too much.
So we keep people at home or in a familiar home environment. Through
personal care budgets let people tailor care delivery at home. Care
distance and telephoto applications and technology gradually in the repayment
recorded when it appears that they are effective. We go for age-friendly
Village and town cores and promote build lifelong. Home care to
facilitate our response to a sociological reality, and we catch some of the
aging.

Open VLD

Election program May 25, 2014

p. 33/56

Give poverty no chance

Eliminating unfreedom by unequal starting opportunities is the best guarantee
to give everyone the chance to become an independent and free individual. The
Government must invest in fighting deprivation without the freedom and
curtail the initiative of people. The essence of poverty must
his emancipation. So it should be a springboard, not a distribution model
People anchored in poverty. The ministers of labor and education are also
The ministers of the fight against poverty.

Removing children from their social isolation

The foundation of deprivation is placed in the cradle. Open VLD wants an approach
and programs aimed to parents and children from the underprivileged
retrieve isolation and allow them to participate in social networks and activities
in their own environment. The age of 0 to 3 is hereby precarious. In association with
the target audience, municipalities, education and civil society is deployed on the
creation of social networks and contacts, giving incentives for
very young children and their families and preventing stressful environments.

At a young age should be invested in schools and elsewhere in
communication as an alternative to adverse physical reactions, such as
aggression. Therefore Open VLD advocates to focus in on any one snoezelklas
school so that children learn to identify their emotional behavior, recognize,
acknowledge and express. Because aggression often indicates underlying emotions
pent-up anger, intense grief or extreme fears.

Resilient, stronger and more independent against poverty
For other age sets Open VLD in social emancipation to
to disadvantaged groups more resilient, stronger and more independent. Stimulate the
participation in society to break isolation is done in first
Body by employment and by socio-cultural neighborhood bound
networks and initiatives. This creates greater cohesion among people.
Elderly (65plussers) have a higher poverty rate than the total population.
We need them so both income (pensions, income for the elderly,
indemnity for help to the elderly) as sustainable housing needs (both
individually and collectively) to approach focused. The limited visibility
deprivation and poverty in rural areas (the silent poverty) with a
multidimensional character deserves special attention.
The CPAs, with their years of expertise, should the government
are supported to be the central actor in addressing the
economics of deprivation. Their administrative burden must be lightened
and they should be given more autonomy. Especially the rising housing costs of 25%
Flemings who do not own a home for Open VLD be a challenge.

Open VLD

Election program May 25, 2014

p. 34/56

Bets on work, education and a home
Those who have a job are limited or her poverty to less than 5%. Also
Education is a particularly effective weapon against poverty. Playing both levers
namely on self-reliance, and therefore its activation and education for us
most important tools of a successful poverty.

Poverty is complex and not reducible to a lack of funding. But almost all
facets of poverty take the upper hand when one is homeless.
That is why we want to extend the Housing First experiment and expand. With this
model we first invest in housing and then guided to a
regular life.

Continued efforts to ensure a living wage covering

Despite the crisis and the limited government budget, we increased in 2013
living wage by 2%. We realize that the new amounts are not always sufficient
and so we will always consider new efforts in the framework of a
full social and economic policy strategy. We want to be there watching over us
not create activity falls, and so we want that sufficient tension remains
the minimum wage. Social integration is promoting a joint task
the next federal and Flemish governments. There should be more attention to the
often hidden problems of poverty among self-employed.

Open VLD

Election program May 25, 2014

p. 35/56

Diversity and Integration

It is high time to separate the facts from the clichés in the integration debate. The
spectacles through which we look at migration and integration, is due for a positive update.
Because the integration debate has been too long in the hands of whom either trouble
ignore, or they magnified. And at the expense of everyone, native and
newcomer.
Before we make policy or analysis, we must ask ourselves where we're
want. We want to seize the opportunities of a diverse society us? Or wish
we reject them out of fear, and therefore they just destroy ourselves? Our answer is
clear: is open to diversity is the best guarantee not in the year 2064
To commemorate 100 years of migration, as was the case this year, but to celebrate it.

Compulsory integration as the basis of self-reliance

Anyone who wants to build his future in Flanders must continue its efforts
(compulsory integration) to be self-sufficient: Dutch learning, working,
participating in society.

We expect newcomers that they know the main values ​​and respect
compliance that allow coexistence in diversity in Flanders: freedom
(religion, expression, association), gender (men and women, non-discrimination)
solidarity, respect and citizenship (pluralism, democracy). We expect the
Flemings that they are open to (integrate) newcomers. We expect
from the government to pursue a policy which helps newcomers integrate and
integrate and people of foreign origin will help emancipate and participate and
giving them equal opportunities. We expect the government that it is ensuring it on
we intransigence on achievements such as the equality
equality between men and women or gay rights. We oppose any
discrimination. All too often people because of skin color,
sex, race, national origin discrimination in the labor market and the housing market.
That is why we are working on self-regulation: we make with the sectors' mystery
tests' which we can identify abuse and road work.
We put a lot more into the potential of entrepreneurship by immigrants, with
particular attention to women.

Open VLD

Election program May 25, 2014

p. 36/56

The right to self-determination

People have the freedom to make their own choices which their route
determined path. More than anywhere else, this freedom must be guaranteed
the most important decisions in life. We're talking about the beginning of the
life and the end of it. On the choice of education. The partner, the way
of living together and forming a family. In the ethical issues of the
life people should be free to make their choices. Because no one his or her
Life can fill better than him- or herself.

The choice for gays to raise a family

We realize with custody. Eleven years after it was possible for people from
same sex to marry them and seven years after it was made possible to
to adopt a child, that is a new and much needed step in the fight against the
discrimination against gay and lesbian couples. It is unacceptable that two women or two
Men, when they love to take the decision to start a family, a
grueling adoption process to go through. As with heterosexual couples is the case,
it must be possible for them the child they wish with their partner,
simply acknowledge. And this not only for lesbian couples, but also for
sex couples as possible, work should be made a
legislative framework for surrogacy.

Parents desire and the rights of the child

Wish Parents need of donor eggs and seeds in order to have children
to realize. Like for instance, aware unwed mothers. In contrast to
other countries are therefore donors us anonymously. So we guarantee that there
sufficient donor eggs and -zaadcellen available. On the other hand, we have the
Rights of the Child mindful hold. They often want later in life their
know biological parents. For both the rights of the prospective parents and the
children wish to meet, we therefore need a law that is more
freedom and flexibility allows. Five donor profiles allow, where anonymous donation
remains possible, but at the same time to choose donors can personal characteristics
releasing or permitting contact, the answer to this ethical issue.

A true reflection of society

Education should reflect society. It should be our children
Preparing our society in all its facets. Therefore, in the system must also be
religion or ethics classes focus for all cultures present in our
multicultural society and religions. So that children learn each other's background
knowledge and ignorance gives way to understanding. Religious and
philosophical subjects we want to add one box LEF
(Philosophy, Ethics and Philosophy). It presents the fundamental values
interpreted in our society, such as the separation of church and state, equality
husband and wife or the freedom of expression. From this universally recognized
value base can prosper our multicultural society and we are moving towards a
intercultural society.
Open VLD

Election program May 25, 2014

p. 37/56

Autonomous and free to decide at the end of life issue
Every person in our society must in all freedom itself can answer
specify the hardest question in life, namely the end of life issue.
To guarantee this freedom, we must both strengthen palliative care
and also address the gaps in the current legislation on euthanasia. We have to
from the limited validity of five years from the will and the
signing a term here myself to make paste. No doctor should be
mandatory nor prevented under legal conditions allow euthanasia
fit. No medical institution has the right to its philosophy
impose her doctors and will have the choice of each patient within her
guaranteeing institution. Finally, should the needs of patients with
incurable and irreversible brain disorder in which an advance to
a dignified life requests are respected.
We guarantee everyone a life in which one can in an independent way
function in society. People with disabilities also have
talents that they can use perfectly despite their disability. We therefore assume
all brakes on the development of those talents away. We test infrastructure off
its accessibility for the blind, wheelchair users and those with other
limitations. Services in public transport for people with
limitation is optimized so that it is among the best in the world. We
encourage employers to help people with disabilities to find a job.

Culture emancipates

The intrinsic value of culture must be re-central. It is
a binder for citizenship evokes the sense of community, stimulates
critical self-reflection and contributes to the quality of life. Culture is the engine of
social growth and change culture is also, like innovation,
lever for the image of Flanders abroad. Cultural policy
is also its focus to cultural expressions from abroad to Flanders
so get a cross-fertilization of new ideas and investments in creative
sector can take place.

Culture that makes a difference

Flanders must create a space for culture difference at European level
makes. Efforts should be evaluated for this purpose on their
social return and thus their return to our tangible and intangible
prosperity. In assessing these projects we want to make maximum use
the insights of the culture sector, but it is politics that the final here
must assume responsibility for the choices made.

Quasi monopolies (eg. SABAM) are broken by disconnecting the
information about copyright, on the one hand, and their management, on the other hand, via a
Central Crossroads Copyrights.

From the federal level, the attention and the budget for the federal
culture settings are increased. Our country has a wonderful
heritage that unfortunately is often preserved in poor conditions and
Open VLD

Election program May 25, 2014

p. 38/56

exhibited. Along with other federal cultural institutions should be around here a
action plan be drawn up in order to function on the level of ambition
similar foreign institutions, such as the renewed
Rijksmuseum.

Continuous innovation in the cultural sector

Open VLD wants a clear commitment to a diverse and high quality cultural offer with many
space for experimentation and artistic innovation. New dynamics are at
initiative launched through project grants. They create more flexibility in order to themes
filling, giving faster connection to new trends and challenges. The ratio
between structural and project subsidies should be adjusted in favor
the project grants.

Alternative financing and appropriate fiscal system
The Belgian film industry has proven that the tax shelter is a fertile system
to give the private sector a role in stimulating cultural commercial
projects. Therefore Open VLD wants to expand the system to a wide range of
other cultural projects such as exhibitions, theater, opera, musicals, concerts
and others. This expansion will be built simultaneously brakes
projects to avoid where the Flemish creative input extremely minimal to
is symbolic. We want to develop a legal framework for corporate philanthropy
(with tax incentives).
Open VLD wants to make the arts financially resilient. This can be done through more
set up managerial and entrepreneurial skills and create an environment
thus creating cultural players themselves more and easier to own income
search and find go.
Private actors should be more encouraged to invest in the
cultural sectors. The cultural cooperation agreement between the Flemish and
French Community, this is an appropriate platform for dialogue with the federal
level concerning the creation of a favorable tax climate and constructively
seek alternative financing systems. Examples include encouraging
of patronage, automatic application of tax relief on donations,
crowdfunding "

Open VLD Suggests to extend the tax shelter to a wide range
other creative products such as musical, to books, music sector
other. With the expansion of the tax shelter for other sectors in the
simultaneously inhibit legislation be put in place to avoid projects
Flemish creative input is minimal to symbolically.

Further, the forms of financing should that differ from the traditional subsidization
to be expanded. So CultuurInvest of the instruments developed so
Rail investments for subsidized organizations may
created.

Open VLD

Election program May 25, 2014

p. 39/56

A sports fetching results
Sport makes you free, healthy and learning attitude. That's why we invest in sport for all
and this in good and safe conditions. We give opportunities to young talent to become
to fully develop the field of sports and create a sports climate
where sport is fully supported. Open VLD wants the municipalities
own accents can put in their sports without patronizing from above
to thus be able to offer a lasting sports. To construct
sports infrastructure support we introduce a tax shelter in. Our athletes
must be able to perform best effort and should not be hampered by
our political structures. Therefore, we want the cooperation between the
Strengthen communities in the field of sport, especially when it team sports
going.

Open VLD

Election program May 25, 2014

p. 40/56

Secure coexistence

Citizens have a right to an effective rule of law, which provides legal certainty, fast
procedures for disputes and punishing crimes and crimes, and maximum
guarantees of security in everyday life.

Safety as a shared responsibility

Safety is a basic need and the base for our democratic system.
Without security there is no freedom, and applies only to the law of the strongest. Freedom
can not without responsibility, solidarity and justice.

Safety is a shared responsibility between government, citizens and
private sector. The security we guarantee a comprehensive and integrated
fashion and other sectors such as health, education, mobility, economic and
social inspectorates involved. A good security policy works
four axes - prevention, detection, repression, aftercare - and is not merely
sanctioning.
Neighborhood policing, neighborhood information networks, social control and deployment of new
technologies such as fixed and mobile smart cameras, data mining software, social
media and others fit into that evolution. Open VLD want a clear legal framework
that can integrate the latest technological developments in a flexible manner in the
police operation. Respecting privacy while still a basic value (see below).

Integrated security approach for better results
All levels of government contribute to the security of citizens: local, regional and
federal but also Europe and internationally. The European Union needs its own
Security for expansion include transnational organized
crime,
itinerant gangs, weapons and drug smugglers,
human trafficking, terrorism and violent radicalism. Harmonize
European legislation is an instrument there, but also and above all operational
collaboration across borders.

Flemish levers integrated
security

Flanders has a lot of leverage on a comprehensive and integrated
security and should use these urgently. It also requires cooperation with
the local level, with the mayor at the head. Local authorities should the spindle
in the network of schools, housing, the justice home,
welfare, police, ...

Incivilities remain a useful tool as they serve
to punish antisocial and disruptive behavior.

Open VLD

Election program May 25, 2014

p. 41/56

A community policing which is ensured by a well
developed proximity police ensures the maintenance, promotion and
restoring our security. All forms of crime have an appropriate
manner to be addressed. Open VLD also want the administrative approach
(organized) crime to further expand. The police officer fulfills a herewith
essential role. Feedback to the local population is essential and there
will be provided on a regular basis say moments.

A widespread digitalisation of police and a further administrative
Simplification should ensure that police officers are more present on
road safety oversight, accountable to the citizens and ready for
rapid interventions. Administrative tasks should as much as possible, therefore,
Automated
or
by
others
performed:
civilian,
other
public servants or private sector.

Open VLD advocates a transfer of some police functions to third parties,
particularly the private sector. It comes down to the public role of the private
to define security. The private security should be recognized as a
full-fledged player in the security policy. A simplified staff regulations,
functional remuneration and a flexible evaluation and disciplinary rules are the appropriate
tools to achieve a flexible and agile organization. Moreover
should the Inter Zonal police cooperation and scale for small
police are encouraged to free up the necessary capacity so
equivalent policing is achieved in all police districts.

Also wear fire and civil protection to the safety management in the broad
meaning of the word. Civil Defence is in the fire department structure
integrated. Volunteers continue to play a central role in the
fire service reform as local switching within the fire zone. The
artistic heritage of our citizens need specific protection. We ask
the creation of a stolen art database accessible to the public and this
to discourage the art thieves.

Respect for legal and human rights

Open VLD, the Justice Reform carried out where the country for thirty years on
waited. In the next legislature should be its aims
realized: more effective management, more specialization of judges, a
customer-oriented approach with more transparency and communication, and shorter deadlines
the elimination of the backlog. Budget and personnel through
recurring evaluation, henceforth assigned depending on the results and
quality of service. In 2019 Justice must finally have ICT
which is at the level of other social sectors.
Judge doesnot, in an understandable language and in the shortest
possible. ADR is a valuable tool
to resolve conflicts. Justice specializes continues and builds expertise
to efficiently tackle even complex crime. Information flow to
Victims should be simple and transparent. Every citizen is entitled to a
efficient, affordable and accessible justice those lawsuits within a
reasonable period handles. The system of legal aid should be simple,
are transparent and fair. The reform of the pro bono compensation is
Open VLD

Election program May 25, 2014

p. 42/56

necessary so that the system remains financially portable and access to justice
remains guaranteed for those who really need it.

The overcrowding of prisons has been falling since last year, and should by 2019
have disappeared. The use of the Tilburg prison ends at the latest
2016. The approach of prisoners aimed at maximum imprisonment as the ultimate
means, on reintegration after the sentence and diversification of the sanction, both within
and between the penitentiary institutions regarding methods (probation, community service,
anklet ...). Land and Public Health will be spread over several years
the cost and responsibility of taking care of health and mental health
assistance to take over detainees. All sentences handed down by judges
remain in any case also be carried out further effectively. Shipment
prisoners of foreign nationality to their country of origin is further
pushed, including through new bilateral cooperation agreements.

The revision of the criminal procedure

The reform of criminal procedure, which the European legislation our country
calls, should aim to at least halve the treatment and
procedural time limits and procedures. That is the essential goal, which - as reasonable
duration - even as a human right has been recognized by the European Court. The risk - by
curtailing many procedures - a guarantee of reduction for the
defense is captured by a recognized commitment to defense
in all stages of the procedure and by creating evaluation and sanctioning bodies post factum on the observance of basic human rights.

Specific attention is required for the investigation and prosecution procedures
on possible offenses relating to taxation. States that investigations by the tax authorities
be more efficient, by concentrating more on phenomena with an maatschappijof competitive disruptive rather than on compliance
regulatory procedures for all citizens. At the same time the tax authorities must have a legal
framework in which analogy with a recognized criminal involvement
defense provides all stages of the procedure, as well as evaluation and
sanctionerings bodies after the fact relating to compliance with basic
human rights.

Ensuring privacy and cybercrime

The next government must, in the light of the evolution of the European regulations,
the needs and applications of the privacy and the legislation of our country
fully review issues and make adjustments according to the new
possibilities on the internet and in the GSM, GPS and ICT technology. The intention is
a new but equally reliable sensitivity regarding privacy protection
come. Sales of personal customer data to third parties may only with
explicit consent of the customer. The customer may obtain this consent at any
any time withdraw it.

This includes the fight against cyber crime and espionage
bugging, which is further increased. The mainstreaming cybersecurity
we in tendering processes of government. At the European level should aim
be a harmonized approach and information sharing in the risks and
security breaches. The government should in the drafting of its rules and the
Open VLD

Election program May 25, 2014

p. 43/56

expanding its ICT infrastructure to conduct a privacy impact analysis to
close undue interference in private life out. To address the growing privacy issues there should be a state secretary for privacy. Not if
additional function but as a replacement for another state secretariat.

III. A MODERN GOVERNMENT

Open VLD sees the government as a partner, which makes it possible for more people. At a
new time, hear a modern government. A government as a partner, representing more
makes it possible for humans. We opt for a government that allows for free
initiative of citizens, entrepreneurs, associations, parents or students. Are Today
complex government structures hold back those who want to advance. There are too many rules and
encouraging rather than free initiative, his mistrust and excessive control it
starting point. Effective and efficient government begins with simple,
enforceable regulations. Regulations must be beforehand and then evaluated
in terms of its consistency and value.
We propose automatic anyone who graduates a company number
giving and by extension every citizen; the right to take.

Everywhere around us is simple and user services. Customers
behind the wheel. They want value for their money, put errors and shortcomings
ruthlessly and decisions about services and products. That standard
may also count for the government, because we want value for
(tax) money.

Community peace and cooperation

Our country needs peace community. Therefore we can not start a new
State reform, but we first implement the Sixth State Reform. The following
Legislatures is a unique opportunity for the Flemish and the federal government
together to focus on society, job creation and the economy.
We opt for cooperation federalism. We revalue the consultation and
cooperation between governments, so Flemish, federal and European policy choices
up to reinforce each other. By jointly addressing problems we Books
better results and we drive efficient and economical. Authorities think from the
position of citizens and organize their services based on a customer-oriented
approach, rather than working against each other.

In collaboration federalism hear cooperation structures. We reform
Consultation of a place of blocking for a method to decide. The
Senate is the meeting place for representatives from the federal states. Because
The federal powers are exercised in the interest of all Belgians, choose
We in the House of Representatives a number of members in a federal
constituency. Coinciding elections prevent being affected policy
by permanent election fever.

Open VLD

Election program May 25, 2014

p. 44/56

A slim but energetic government
The government enters the market as a referee, not a player. She resigns
from sectors such as telecom, post and banks. She encourages competition in the
public transport. The minimum service is guaranteed.
Our governments are ill emperor-sacristan. The freedom of citizens and entrepreneurs
too much curtailed by regulation and control drift. The sixth State reform is a
opportunity to better organize Flanders and Belgium. New powers
not merely absorbed, but a lever to control the drift and
organization to run the government in question.

We take a different approach. With an internal reform we make a
Flemish government befitting this new era. We give more space to free
initiative of citizens, entrepreneurs, associations, parents or students. It is time
for less government and more freedom. Less regulation, more social. In
The new Flanders, the government will no longer "take care of" but "ensure"
social policy objectives are met.

Simplification of the Flemish and Federal
administration

The liberal approach to a slim and strong Flanders follows a double track. On
short term, we reorganize the crusted advice model and we purchase
at least 2 / 3rds of the 193 settings. At the same time we set up a simple,
citizen-friendly organization on track. We operate customer-oriented and make the
access to the Flemish government for people, associations, investors or
companies simple and clear.

We reform the Flemish organization for five major sectors, each of which
corresponding to a core of Flanders: care (welfare), shapes
(education and training), advance (economics), organize the environment
(space) and manage the money (finance). These five policy areas do not work in
tubes together, but supported himself by working as a customer-oriented
government.

By analogy with the streamlined Flemish government also limits the federal
Government its organization into five policy areas: domestic, foreign, social
security, health and finances. A citizen, company or local government is
thus in contact with more than 10 ministries or administrations on all
levels going. Each policy is guided by a competent
government manager who is accountable for the results agreed with
the political level. The not-for-profit organizations and companies
performing public contracts must be made accountable in a more efficient,
efficient and effective service. Linear savings are replaced
by modern, empowering techniques for improving efficiency.
Government organizations realized efficiency gains may partly
reinvest.

Open VLD

Election program May 25, 2014

p. 45/56

More policy space for cities and towns
Local authorities are directing policy on their territory. Cities and
municipalities more freedom and control. Citizens can with participation and
dialogue in determining what happens in their lives and in their environment.

The administrative power of local governments increases. Open VLD wants the
policy space for the municipalities in the first phase with minimum 50% increase by
transfer of Flemish and provincial powers and resources. The current
cities and municipalities shall cooperate in sufficient linkages with
we encourage them to come in due to mergers. This is a neighborhood and
citizen-centered approach not in the way, but it does leave a greater professionalization
increasing. CPAS merge with the municipality to a local social policy
to realize. The tasks of counties be taken over by Flanders or by the
cities and municipalities. Simultaneously, we also lose the intermediate structures such as
municipalities and autonomous municipal businesses off.

A living countryside

Our ambition is a living countryside with an accessible basic services. We
strengthen the administrative power of rural communities through a reform of
the
Country Fund
from
a
project
to
a
structurally
financial instrument. We also are working on a clear concept
urban agriculture.

A government of and for people

The problem of a complex government are not the people, or the rules and
structures. The way we organize work for the government, comes from
last century. We need a different organization, which distances itself from frustrating
habits or rules that lead to acidification and onefficiëntie. A modern government
is a customer and results-driven organization where it is a pleasure to work and you
helping to build a project at the service of society and economy.

We look at the work of the government is in a different way. In place
of your life working for the state, we make it possible for your competencies
more project-based and targeted to bet. That means people without
drag to move from the private to the public sector and
vice versa. Contractual agreements are the rule, the separate status of officials is
the exception and is more flexible and modern. When the workload peaks, may
the government also do perfect job on an interim labor.

We review the career and career officials so
performance-based compensation, non-age-related career development and
evaluation policy emulate the practices of the private sector. We step off
seniority as a basis for compensation, but look for the right skills
in the right place. For the same reason we do not believe in a rigid
political presence, but we make people wherever possible directing their
own work. Let's competency outweigh seniority or experience.
Such an approach speaks more talents, and also gives women more opportunities
managerial positions.
Open VLD

Election program May 25, 2014

p. 46/56

We invest less in offices or square footage and more in digitization and
pleasant working environment. We are working for the government and mobile
project-oriented, not only within the same government but also between different
levels of government. We make the government a platform where available
information to be made available to citizens. We work - with respect
for rules of privacy - an open data strategy and give this way free
initiative more opportunities to solve social problems.

The important role of Brussels

Brussels concerns us all. More than we think. It is together with Waals and
Flemish Brabant an important engine of our economy of Belgium, Brussels is the
largest employment basin for Brussels, Flemish and Walloons, it is the seat
of numerous international businesses, it is a major international
decision center with global reach, an important cultural city as well,
also for the Dutch language and culture ... It is a vibrant city to live,
come to work or enjoy.

The Brussels budget is balanced without raising taxes and
Dutch-language education in the booming capital and annually delivers new
generations multilingual ketjes off the labor market. The myths about the Brussels
bottomless pits behind us. The sixth state reform we want the
keep investing in jobs in our economy and in the mobility and
around Brussels: the Regional Express Network of SNCB, with fast Brabantnet
tram connections Line and additional metro and tram STIB. We
invest in the growth opportunities of the capital. We have to
will cooperate with mutual respect in a Brussels Metropolitan Region.
As Liberals, we do everything for the further development of the
(Dutch) education in the capital. We catch because of the strong
population explosion in the need for new and good schools. This is it
first-line policy against youth unemployment and social problems. We
invest in the coming years in an attractive capital to live,
business and to visit: we will focus on cleanliness and safety and preserve the
Living bonus. We abolish the regional tax of € 89 and make the tax burden
municipal and regional transparent for all entrepreneurs.

A century of involvement and participation

First and strong signal of our confidence in freedom and
responsibility of responsible citizens we abolish compulsory voting. In the
Instead, the right to vote, from 16 years.

We go from consultation to participation. Participate in the policy provides the most
when people are well informed and smooth. Therefore we want all
governments, the wealth of data and information is no longer locked into fist-sized
technical files in hermetic language, but seize the opportunities that online social and
provide media and graphics technology. Therefore we want in the next legislature
experiments with open data and open apps so that citizens and businesses themselves
can help to build applications that make life better.
Open VLD

Election program May 25, 2014

p. 47/56

People have a right to know where their tax money is going. Therefore want
we want the federal and Flemish governments translates into simple and budget
visually appealing (digital) information sheets. Which translation starts from the
world of the citizen and shows which policy segments every part of his
or visit her tax money.

Informing people is not like people to include in the policy.
Therefore we want, similar to initiatives in cities like Kortrijk
Mechelen and Antwerp in some districts controlled experiments
budget games. This means that citizens in decisions where tax money
spent and what policies should be more or less.

Real participation always requires a good organization and balancing across a
efficient decision-making. Appearances Participation, a non-transparent jumble of
undemocratic advisory and endless stretch procedures are obstacles and
put society stuck in indecision. Procedures are therefore so
again reasonable and we put the final responsibility for the policy to continue
politics.

Open VLD

Election program May 25, 2014

p. 48/56

IV. THE WORLD
It is time to think differently about energy and climate. Global
earth is a global reality and a challenge, as well as the drying up of fossil
energy sources. These sources are finite, increasingly require greater cost to
exploit and pollute man and the environment.

But it can be different. A society without pollution, where energy affordable
and is practically inexhaustible, where economic growth goes hand in hand with a cleaner
environment and creates space for additional jobs. That is not a vague dream ... it is
a blue economy. It is the economy of tomorrow, but the building blocks ensure
we lay today.
For the revolution to a blue economy, we must continue to allow
betting on renewable energy.

Achieving European climate change objectives in a unified
Energy
The rotation for a blue economy, we realize not alone. We work
this together with Europe. We do this by ambitious European targets
perform to reduce CO2 emissions and renewable energy production
increase. We also do that by taking an integrated
energy market.

By working together on a larger scale it is indeed possible to clean energy
more efficiently and to develop the lowest possible price. Within the federal Belgium
We make agreements between the various authorities on the realization of the
objectives. Cooperation on a large scale means collaboration and distribution
efforts in Research and Development as well as the actual production
renewable energy.
Because renewable energy is spread geographically, is attention
for interconnection capacity essential in a unified energy market. Single
if the energy is also effective from the sunny south to the windswept northwest
can be transported to the market is really unified. We are therefore
in favor of a highly developed North sea, the high on term
voltage electricity transmission can provide along the coasts and
wind farms in Europe.
A strong unified open market ensures fairer and lower prices.

A balanced energy mix for the future

Currently we are in a transition phase to a blue economy. In which
phase remains a balanced energy mix. Therein we need to link the
more renewable energy to a limitation of the transition cost and to
ensuring security of energy supply.
Open VLD

Election program May 25, 2014

p. 49/56

We start with the statutory phasing out of nuclear power.
Existing renewable energy is not constant (wind, sun ...). We therefore work
with all partners in the energy sector a system of supply from
based on interconnection with neighboring countries, flexibility of demand and
cost effective spare capacity, as long as it is needed.

Electricity storage is -after the local production and vraagbeheer- the 'next
frontier 'in the evolving energy market. To reduce costs for energy consumers
Continue to reduce storage is needed from the cheap electricity
off-peak hours and hours with surplus production from wind and sun; also can store the
provide flexibility in order to keep the grid in balance. Grid operators, regulators and
government make this a framework in which free initiative is up to
develop.

Rev rational energy consumption and
re-use of raw materials

To make the transition to a blue economy is betting on rational
power consumption is important. We can indeed accelerate the changeover by
dependence on fossil fuels by limiting its use to
limit but also by consuming smarter.

The government has to play a significant role here, both in terms of
standardization, for example. new construction and renovation, and by granting tax
incentives for energy-saving investments, and by itself the example
provide with energy-efficient government buildings and vehicles. These incentives
should lead to more buildings to be energy-neutral or even energy
produce: a real start-up of local production whereby consumers
Become prosumers.

But we go further. By going out of the Cradle to Cradle principle we want
strive to all the materials used in a given product is useful to
into another product, energy and other products. In this way
from one product, the waste is a raw material for the following.

Industrial estates and residential areas are arranged so that the waste heat from
the one serves as energy of the neighbor, or that the waste of a the other one as a raw material
for still serves another. So we set example on smart use of energy
from biomass, the CO2 is reused as fertilizer.
We invest in the further rethinking of our energy consumption. The abundance of
Renewable energy manifests indeed also in tailoring
production and consumption.

One of the major challenges of renewable energy is the vicissitude. Lake
more than temporary shortages temporary overproduction is a major threat to the
just. We are strengthening the stability of the net with concepts that surplus
Renewable energy can be used.

Thus, the surplus can be used to wind energy in greenhouses to grow vegetables through specific LED light. Rather than storing energy in batteries polluting
that convert chemical energy into electrical energy, and instead of Greenhouses in
Open VLD

Election program May 25, 2014

p. 50/56

install energy-consuming UV lamps, we convert electrical energy into
(bio) chemical energy: food and battery.

Handicap energy reduction by drop
government spending on energy bill

The sharp rise in energy costs in recent years is mainly to
due to the government spending, with costs to society through various
fees and surcharges in the final bill end up. We advocate the use
an energy standard, whereby the calculations of government liabilities in the
electricity bill is made transparent and limited to a certain
level. Addressing the current system of subsidizing green
power certificates in Flanders is the central priority. We advocate
a limitation of the flow-through certificates in the energy bill and a
shift towards technology-neutral investment.

Furthermore, the energy bill is not the tool to implement social policies.
Everyone should know what their energy costs. Energy and other poverty
contested by support for energy saving measures and social support
offering where necessary. Social policy is transparent and from its own resources
government funded. Also double taxation, such as lifting VAT
is tackled on top of excise duties. The government needs to impose any tax on
a cost that they impose themselves and ensure that the burden on energy in line with that
the neighbors and the integrated European market. This causes the
energy handicap for people and companies reduced.

The Grid as the network of the future
Each energy system is only as strong as its network.

To achieve our goals is a strong and decentralized network needed. Not
only of cables and pipes, but also of data traffic. It is certain that a modern
Power driven smart should work. We therefore set up in the
further roll-out of smart meters and smart grids ... to the clever use of the
network.

To build such a performance right out, we need strong partners. We
evaluate the functioning of municipalities and operators and ensure that
the rate methods are ready for the rotation. Thus, we introduce a
capacity tariff: if less high power needs will pay less, whom
high power only a few times a year, needs pays a fee for
the availability. This keeps the costs for the entire network and provides affordable
ensure that network operators can fully participate in the rollout of a
renewable energy.

To reform the system operators as a strong partner they 'got rid' of sorts
tasks that do not really have to do with network management, we carry about a
debate on core tasks. At the same time we see how we can the accumulated expertise
valorize by letting part private partners through IPO.
Open VLD

Election program May 25, 2014

p. 51/56

"We in the world, the world to us"
People on this planet are interconnected. The economy is going from local to
globally. No country or region can have isolated all challenges. A vision
across borders is therefore of global importance. A real foreign
policy is about the representation of material interests but also on the
propagation of human values ​​such as peace and security, human rights and
civil liberties. We defend both with equal conviction. Moreover
also we are as a country open to those who need our protection, an efficient
asylum policy. And we want to make economic migration at EU level
parts for those who wish to contribute to our society and our universal values.
This input can enrich.

A coherent foreign policy

To defend the interests of our citizens and companies abroad
all levels of government should work together optimally. Maximum coordination,
effectiveness and efficiency are the yardstick for the policy. In the past
came the regional and federal level in the area of ​​foreign policy sometimes in
collision. At such macho behavior, our citizens and businesses, nor our
foreign partners, a message.

We make choices in the places where we operate. This means a leaner
network of diplomatic missions of up to 100 embassies across 140 now. Which
post we want to or better bestaffen so we up our resources
in the places where we have the greatest interest, and where the greatest
growth potential is present. To Dutch and Swiss example we advocate
integrated embassies, where the representatives of all federal and
regional administrations to live under one roof and work together much better, rather
even more expensive and separate Flemish houses.

Powerful economic diplomacy

International business by Flemish companies earn maximum
support. It is not sufficient for increasing exports, but also that our
market share increases. This requires a concentrated effort and targeted
cooperation between actors. We want the actions of various governments,
at federal and regional levels, better coordinated. The focus is on
primarily to countries outside Western Europe. It is on the distant and difficult
markets that entrepreneurs can find the greatest value and where
Most are growth opportunities for our companies. The twenty most important
Emerging countries are our priority.

This means that the regional export promotion services our SMEs more
strategic guidance in their business development, to help them new
identifying opportunities. A proactive approach is the norm. Wide princely
economic missions and sectoral regional shipments remain resources to our
to support economic interests. We also strengthen our networks around
embassies and international fora, so that not only our great companies, but
also SMEs with a good story can make contacts abroad.
Open VLD

Election program May 25, 2014

p. 52/56

Defense of human rights and civil liberties
Human rights are universal rights for liberals, when we haggle anything. She
are so prominent in both the European Union and in our bilateral and
Multilateral actions. We wish to distance ourselves from all forms of discrimination
based on origin, gender, religion, creed or political
conviction. We continue to combat discrimination against gays and transgender fiercely.
Restrictions on freedom of speech and political intimidation are unacceptable. We
propose not only to denounce abuses, but also raise awareness
around these universal rights. As we have done in the past with our
Action against landmines or cluster munitions, we want our country in the fight against
Discrimination plays a leading role. We want a well
pioneering role when it comes to equal pay for equal work. It's not
acceptable for women for the same job are paid less than their
male colleagues.

Services to citizens abroad

Belgians abroad remain full citizens of our country. Spurred on
Liberal foreign ministers are in this area over the past fifteen years
put enormous steps. Think of preparedness for natural disasters. We
continue to invest in new services needed by the citizens abroad.
Specifically, we argue for a longer period of validity of passports, the use
biometrics and an extensive use of e-government, so that Belgians
abroad need to travel less to a diplomatic post. We want
also simplify voting rights for Belgians abroad and to expand
regional level. We put in here to vote electronically via secure
Internet systems.

The importance of the transatlantic relationship

A strong and self-confident European Union and engage in a strong transatlantic relationship
hand in hand. We share with the United States and Canada, and important values
interests. Economically, we remain important partners. It is in our
common interest to invest in this relationship. This relationship is
However, based on mutual trust: friends do not spy on each other.

A modern and responsible Defense

Freedom and security which we live in Europe, are never final
acquired, but to be earned every day. The defense of our values ​​and
our economic interests will always have a need for credible military pillar
to be.

As a small country we also make our contribution to a peaceful and secure world. The
three D's of our security concept - Development, Diplomacy and Defence - votes
we off on each other. In the three areas we deliver as a responsible partner
a contribution, also in terms of military missions. When these operations are getting the safety
and the welfare of the deployed soldiers the greatest attention. Participation in a
military mission follows after a parliamentary debate and with the support of the Chamber of
Open VLD

Election program May 25, 2014

p. 53/56

Representatives. In addition, we emphasize the primary role for the
international legal order. Military intervention in principle be within the
Under the UN Security Council. Only with a complete blockage in the
Security may be looking at alternatives. But then each must
action to be supported by a broad international coalition.

A defense geared to the future

To be a credible partner for our allies in EU and NATO Verband take our country to its responsibility by a fair share of the
wear budgetary burdens and risks. There is thereby a better balance between
expenses for staff on the one hand and investment and operation on the other. The
next government will replace the F-16s with new fighters .. That's
necessary for our security and means that we can enjoy up
of economic payback for Flemish Belgian industry. To
Finally Defense should further adopt open to society through better
collaboration with education and (tech) companies. We invest
in the appeal of Defence as an employer.
The common military approach in Benelux context serves for us as a
for example, greater cooperation within the European Union. Which can
turn into a real European army with a common procurement,
central planning and one operational headquarters. The huge
economies of scale resulting therefrom make the European Member States to provide in times
of shrinking budgets while still delivering more added value. A European
Army is not NATO's competitor, but as a European pillar just a reinforcement
NATO.

Develop by working together and act

Unlike the current forms of development leading to the free movement
of capital, goods, services and ideas to greater prosperity for ever
more people. Global free trade is the best recipe against poverty. The
relative importance of the classical development cooperation in the overall
funding decreases to the south. In 1970 it amounted to 70%; in 2015 which is less
than 10%. Other cash flows are more important: direct investment, trade,
loans, transfers from emigrants and tax revenues in the partner countries.
By opting for free trade, sustainable human development, security,
democratization and investments let's patronizing paternalism of the
past loose.
Dependence on aid is detrimental to self-sufficiency. The policy on
Development
should
the
economic
ambitions
from
the
developing countries to accompany and support. That is why we strive for
democratic, stable law states that productive investment in trade
permit, and for a strong private sector. Policy coherence is thereby fundamentally.
The development opportunities in the South are increasingly determined by other
policy areas such as trade, agriculture, taxation, environment, then just by
Development.

Open VLD

Election program May 25, 2014

p. 54/56

Efficient assistance under clear conditions
We put quality and not quantity center. The target of 0.7% stems from
a previous era when development still the only source of funding for the
Was the South. Results, impact and quality are the guiding principles, not demand
how much money is being spent. Financial support through development cooperation
Therefore, coupled with results. Partners who are able to produce good results,
more resources. Human rights, democratic principles and good
financial management are increasingly the conditions for financial assistance.

The increasing impact of our interventions when we focus on 15
partner countries and a number of multilateral partner organizations. We are committed to
the poorest and most fragile countries and, in these countries, education, women, climate, water,
food security and support to the local private sector. Federal and regional
governments involved coordinate their development so that their actions together
strengthen. Now the government has to Belgian Technical Cooperation (BTC), the
monopoly monitor the implementation of government programs and projects.
This runs counter to the need to reduce the cost of the interventions,
increase quality and shorten the implementation time. That monopoly is no more
of this time.

Opportunities for the Belgian economy

Like our neighbors, we want in terms of the economic strengths of our
country choose the sectors in which the Belgian Development Cooperation is active. So
create a relationship with our company. However, it does not return to
time of white elephants, which were required for countries and partners
receive funds to be used to purchase goods and services from the
donor country. Every effort should be made through transparent tender procedures.

A contemporary approach to migration

Every human being anywhere in the world and how else, deserve freedom and respect as
man. We are therefore open for those who seek protection and migration seen in the first
rather than as a positive and forward-looking story. Globalisation and migration go
After all, hand in hand. Yet no country can resort around the world.
Therefore we make our rules, and we keep to it. Spurred on by the Liberals
finally a strict but fair policy on asylum and migration. This approach
we continue and we want to carry out at European level.

Who needs asylum and subsidiary protection, be welcome in our country. We stay
indeed, extremely attentive to the often extreme discrimination worldwide
still exist. That fits in our fight against any form of marriage,
honor, honor killing, sexual exploitation, gendercide, violence against women and female genital
mutilation. Asylum and reception policy belongs as one minister now at home. Which ensures
rapid processing of applications. On the basis of a list of safe
countries, adjustments to procedures and through targeted dissuasion could
the influx of hopeless asylum seekers are limited. If a negative decision
return the next step voluntarily if possible, forcibly if necessary. The
return process, with specialized coaches the rejected asylum seekers
intensive guidance, will be further implemented.
Open VLD

Election program May 25, 2014

p. 55/56

Rules that prevent abuse
A naive policy of open borders, especially in combination with an open social
security, leading to social catastrophes and abuses. Migration is therefore to
conditions attached. We already verstrengden the conditions
family reunification, where we ask newcomers to demonstrate a satisfactory standard
livelihood
and
housing
to
feature.
Apparent Marriage
and
sham cohabitation is stricter. We continue to fight against illegal
immigration, particularly against trafficking in human beings, because they
is degrading.
A comprehensive migration policy stands or falls with good execution. There are huge
made efforts. That creates opportunities for a form of
organized economic migration at EU level. Migration could be an
enrichment and provides economic, creative, social and cultural
cross-pollination. We want to give newcomers the chance of a better life.
For this we create a system of full-fledged "blue cards" that the economic
immigration permits according to quotas and criteria such as level of education. This to
By analogy with the American "green card" system.

Welcome to those who participate in our society

Migration is not a one-way story. We also ask back efforts. Who on our
help will count, also contributes to our society. We verstrengden
therefore already our nationality laws. We thereby always start from a
universal secular value base and combining a resolute approach to language,
employment and integration of newcomers with the firm conviction that many newcomers
with their entrepreneurial spirit, their willingness to move forward in life and talents
they bring provide an important boost to our society. So
We also reinforce the upward social mobility. Whoever adopts a hostile
in front of these values, has no place to us. Therefore we strengthen
opportunities to lose back Belgian nationality, for example, a
conviction for terrorism, serious crime, human trafficking and smuggling;
honor killings, female genital mutilation, etc.

Open VLD

Election program May 25, 2014

p. 56/56
