t
s
m
O
k
e
O
t
e
z
n
O
l
a
a
i
c
O
s
is

Scenario for a social society

super

social

t
Our toekoms all
is sociality

content
Foreword: A guidebook realized with relief. Lots of help. Many people ............................................... ............ 3
Introduction: Our future is sociaal..........................................................................................................................................6
# GoLeft1: Poverty is not a misfortune, but a aanslag.................................................................................................8
GoLeft # 2: Make hunt for unemployment, not the unemployed .................................... ............................................... 16
GoLeft # 3: A social vision on climate .............................................................................................................................. 24
GoLeft # 4: The wealth dare activeren............................................................................................................................. 32
GoLeft # 5: Class Justice? No, bedankt........................................................................................................................... 38
GoLeft # 6: pensions: the elders, we give peace, young people at work ................................. ......................... 42
GoLeft # 7: Power To The Bank banden................................................................................................................................. 49
GoLeft # 8: Discrimination and racism uitbannen................................................................................................................. 53
GoLeft # 9: A Europe of solidarity and samenwerking................................................................................................ 58
GoLeft # 10: The public services expand .................................................................................................................... 68
GoLeft # 11: Purchasing power beschermen................................................................................................................................75
GoLeft # 12: Education against inequality ...........................................................................................................................79
GoLeft # 13: Gender equality on the agenda zetten............................................................................................................ 84
GoLeft # 14: Health care should not merchandise zijn..................................................................................................... 89
GoLeft # 15: Consultation .............................................................................................................................................................. 93
GoLeft # 16: Unity in the new België.............................................................................................................................97
GoLeft # 17: Securing Peace ....................................................................................................................................... 101
GoLeft # 18: It is our energy ..............................................................................................................................104
GoLeft # 19: Neighborhood Crime: prevention is better than punishing ........................................ ................................... 109
GoLeft # 20: Equal rights for gays ................................................................................................................ 112
GoLeft # 21: Safe food at a fair price ......................................................................................................... 114
GoLeft # 22: Refugees: It is not illegal ....................................... .................................................. ...... 116
GoLeft # 23: Opportunities for the South to stand on their own feet .................................... ...................................... 119

Foreword

A scenario realized with relief. Much
help. Many people
Dear reader,
Before you lies a comprehensive plan. A document realized with help. Lots of help. Of many people.
The campaign by WPB + for the elections of May 2014 began late in 2013 with a large-scale survey.
In three months we collected no less than 41 420 surveys in all provinces of the country. That is a
writ. Because an average survey is conducted by barely 2,000 people. With our survey
we probed the impact of various proposals about twenty political themes of poverty,
participation, to work. The survey was collected in writing or digitally.
Perhaps it is the largest survey ever organized a political party itself. Anyone who is concerned about the
public opinion, know that 41 420 opinions collecting is a tour de force. And that's worth the fruit of gold
is. We have to work not outsourced to private firms, but actively organized. There is a
incredible wealth in the results, a treasure which we have many ideas drawn to this scenario
to give a social cohabitation. Getting to the thousands and thousands of members and volunteers
survey made it possible: thanks!
Because democracy does not mean for us a scoop of colors on May 25 and then be silent for five years. Democracy is a
verb. Democracy is an ongoing process of question and answer. We start with it at the beginning of the
electoral campaign and it never stops. It is anchored in our operation.
Among others, Professor Jan Blommaert was enthusiastic about our approach: "This large-scale survey
explains the support of a number of political proposals plots in all clarity on the table, "he wrote. "There appears
namely that not everyone believes that we have to earn less, we labor regulations
and social security need to taper off, we should leave the capital untouched and resources from the
society must remove to pass them as tax gifts to companies. In reality,
there are very few people agree. The mass - the democratic basis, so to speak - draws in a whole
other direction. It is a great merit of this survey, this suggests that they are so clear. "
With the results, we have been drawn a second time to the people. In January and February 2014 we have them
presented in a hundred places all over the country. If still nothing is going well, but then the turn
first left, it sounds an English proverb: "When nothing goes right, go left!" Go Left, that was the angle
our encounters.
Re-emergence of mass suggestions, proposals, critiques, discussions about the program we
suggested. They were immediately transferred to the research department, which is now in complete silence - then, I account
the rhythmic ticking keyboards temporarily out of competition - the program bijstuurde and afstelde. Thanks to all voluntary
employees, and the tireless David Pestieau. Finally bijtelde Hugo Franssen to the language and scraped to
the sound to this scenario for a social society was finalized.
Indeed, a social society. Social is super, so our baseline reads during this campaign. It is also
the expression of the party that we are. The continued engagement of Medicine for the People, the
selfless dedication in the neighborhoods and in the workplace, the seriousness of our analyzes and alternatives, the open and
optimistic atmosphere in the PTB itself, without elbows, without careerism or personal enrichment, everything
our social engagement, and found that a lot of people super. And as we grow because we humans again
goesting do get into social engagement.
And that is exactly the intention of this program.
Enjoy reading,
Peter Mertens
chairman of the WPB

3

Introduction

Our future is social

We are at a crossroads in politics. Straight ahead is
the road we have now walked thirty years. A
away from more competition and more people coming out
fall boat. It is the way of the private wealth and
public poverty. Let's be clear: this is a
dead end.
Better we hit really left, to the future. That is
an ideological choice. For a society in which
We believe in each other, and not in the maximum benefit.
Hence: "Our future is social."
We blaze of ambition. Of course. Our society
requires ambition, to answer the oligarchy
of the banks to respond to the neoliberal
blindness of the political class.
We need innovation, social innovation,
as an answer to all old-school recipes us
have brought this situation of crisis and lethargy.
This scenario is a social response to those very
The society seen as a marketplace where everything
has a price and can be bought and sold.
Those people think that living together is the same as
competition among all. We say our future is
social. This scenario also deals together
live, work and living of people.
Cohabitation instead of the competition of all
against all. Solidarity instead of dumping a society where those who are not successful, dumped
becomes. A social future, instead of a
runaway market economy in which everyone
constant pressure and is in itself
thrown back. Structural solutions, instead of
individualizing all problems.
Because you can hear more and more: if not richer,
must do better his best and who gets sick, that will
or have lived unhealthy. And who is scrapped
it would not have worked cheap enough, or
not all have slavishly accepted. 'Own fault,
big bulge "that kind of society. A dead end
society. It's time to turn left, and again

4

to dare to talk about structural problems and
social choices.

Solidarity has a voice in our program
received
Democracy is a verb and it is in our
anchored genes. Our members are going to talk to
tens of thousands of people in one of the largest social
surveys ever. In total, 41 420 people have their
given answer.
The survey shows that people in all provinces
put on the same issue number 1, whether it is
in Hainault, West Flanders and in Brussels
is. People of all ages have the same
priority identified: young people and fewer young people.
Whether worker or employee, officer,
unemployed, retired or student: all set
they same point at the top.
The theme that towering stands, everyone,
is poverty. Saying that not only people who
at the end of their wage another piece month
on hold. That also means people who do good
ends meet. It's good to stand there in silence. For it
infringes all selfish and separatist nonsense
you hear every day in the media. All Categories
People say: grab the poverty, which is the
main. That is, the empathy of people
is underestimated, the solidarity, and she has in
our program got a voice.
When the child poverty for the third year
row rises, when tens of thousands of young people from the
cap being thrown when older people
state pension get below the poverty line,
then that is not a matter of "setback". Then talk
we about political choices. And we wish otherwise, to
know socially.
Do not say it is not possible all the benefits above
to lift the limit of human dignity. This is going to
choices. Fundamental choices about the future of
our society.
It is about time to tackle poverty

introduction

is more important than a tax gift for politics
the very rich.

A society can only detect fixed
jobs
Karel De Boeck, CEO of Dexia, you know, the
bench that we all have our little savings
to save that Karel De Boeck was middle
January 2014 guests at Reyers Laat. De Boeck found
a pay rise for directors of Dexia
just. To quote De Boeck: "Yes, we work with
tax money, but we also have professionals
need people with courage. Take the executives
great risks. "
Professionals. People with courage. Executives with
major risks. I want all this to believe it. But
what with all those other professionals and people with
courage? How they are rewarded for their efforts? And
what with that story about "large risks"? Does that sound
not harsh for people who need really big risks
take? Like those two young welders, also beginning
In 2014, were welding on Umicore 's factory
Olen. Maintenance work to a storage tank. There sat
still remains in hydrochloric acid. And the tank exploded. The two
Workers are left at their lives.
Is not it high time a few things to say about
professionals, people with courage and people
who really take risks in our society, for a
wages no tenth of the wages of
CEOs of Dexia? Yes, we are sure craftsmanship,
craftsmanship, hard work and risks in the workplace
rewarding good. If it passes: abolish the
wage freeze down, stay out of the index, and make sure
that labor and productivity in our country good again
being paid. This will improve the purchasing power
Instead of pulling the economy further into the doldrums.
There must be respect for the labor. For all
those that create wealth. That means that
the need for new jobs, stable jobs with
a living wage. "Right to work hard
jobs at a decent wage, "which is the most
ticked requirement from our survey. It is all too
absurd that now the reverse is happening. Permanent jobs
disappear. Interim Jobs, hyper-flexible jobs and
low wage jobs are encouraged.
We want different, we want social. A
Society can only detect permanent jobs. And in the
society, the government must set a good example
give, set the tone. By investing in rail,
De Lijn, in healthcare, in education and in the
social housing, in order to put an end to
the interminable queues. By investing in the
development and production of green energy, in a
public energy sector. And by re-possible
make older employees can share their experience
pass on to young people that they have the right to
to go on early retirement and the torch by
give to young people.
Stop stomping down, suspending
unemployed, cutting benefits, the

competition of all against all. First make
new and stable jobs, that's the priority. It will be
about time that we are hunting down unemployment,
Instead of hunting down the unemployed.

That suit money down a societal choice
from
The cleaner petroleum giant Exxon Mobil
pay more taxes than the multinationals themselves. The
cleaning lady paid 4140 euros in taxes last year,
ExxonMobil paid last year 0 euros in taxes
a profit of 2.9 billion euros. If everyone
neat would pay the statutory tax rate,
the taxes for working people would be very
which might be reduced.
It involves a lot of money that the government annually
missing by her gift tax policy. In
Over the years, the various
Governments loopholes built into the law.
Large rear doors even, deductions which
multinationals profits can artificially
subtract to pay less taxes. On that
way, every year more than 14 billion
euro uncollected. That is a huge pile of money
which can not be used for schools, for
crèches, supported housing, public
transport, social housing or for development
green energy. That's a lot of money, and that pack
money down a societal choice.
Because meanwhile growing inequality. Last year
came again in 5700 millionaires in our country.
In the middle of the crisis. Eight percent more than the year
in advance. And while the economy shrank by 0.3
per cent. There is in this society really a group
who benefits from it, and some politicians and
opinion makers would have us believe that it would go
a sort of natural phenomenon. Where nothing against
fall start.
When we talk about taxes, we speak
not just about numbers, tax rates, taxes, and
corporate balance sheets. We also talk about democracy.
2,763,926 households, 2.7 million families - that's 60
percent of the Belgian population - together hold
less than 1 percent richest families. Or vice versa
said the richest 1 percent of Belgians owns more
than the poorest 60 per cent together. This is not about
digits. This is about democracy.
The gap between rich and poor has never been as great
been. And that is in Europe so. There is a connection
between the two. That did the utopian socialists
two hundred years ago: "In bourgeois
society shoot the poverty of the one derived from
the richness of the other, "wrote Charles Fourier in
1808. That simple observation: the wealth of
One is the poverty of the others, is one of today
the biggest taboos in our society.
That is why our fiscal program not only
about facts and figures. Therefore, it is essentially an
program on democracy. The truth is that our

5

introduction

country with a millionaire's tax no poverty more
would know. The truth is that this does not happen
because there are interests at stake. Major interests.
Interests of a new aristocratic layer that
society suffocated and increasingly politicians in his pocket
has sat down.
Well, we have good news, we like it that way.
Social especially. It is about time that the
multinational again pays more taxes than the
cleaning lady.

Our future focuses on people, not the
profit
We are going into this election campaign full of confidence, and
We depart from our own strengths. We go
talk about poverty, about work, about taxes,
about climate, about justice, and about twelve other
important issues in this scenario.
And we each follow a different logic. Far away
of the old recipes that have us in this crisis
accommodated. In response to the pessimism. In answer
also on those who have any hope of improvement
stolen and now only can say:
"Without us, it would be even worse."

6

Our future is social and the future there is a
of cooperation instead of competition. Our
deserve a future of unity instead of
division, a future where people first
state and not the profit.
Yes, this PTB + aims to be in parliament
get. We want the unanimity of the
Breaking market thinking: on pensions, over the
wage standard, about discrimination, about the GAS fines,
the salary of the ministers themselves and about
gift tax policy. We want to weigh in the debate.
And we will also weigh in on the debate. We will be a
refreshing voice are quite opposite to liberal
fanfare. Because we have chosen side. Not the
we-know-us-part of the financial world or large
multinationals. We choose side for the working
class, for young people, and for all those difficult
has in society.
And let's be honest: it's about time that the side
is heard in all the parliaments of our country.
Help us to this script together
accomplish.
Peter Mertens,
chairman of the WPB

s
i
e
d
e
O
Arm

g
a
l
s
n
e
no teg
but

g
a
l
s
n
a
an A

7

poverty

GoLeft # 1: Poverty is not a setback, but
an attack
The election survey by the WPB
Poverty is the biggest concern of the Belgians. 43% of respondents
crossed that theme in the top three of what we need to address first.
Poverty has a convincing number one of which is a priority in
all regions of the country, for all ages and for all
education levels, regardless of professional situation. The theme peaks above
among the unemployed, pensioners and invalids, and that is not surprising:
they experience poverty firsthand or are threatened directly.

Findings
A. The danger grows to end up in poverty.
A Belgian in seven is poor. A Belgian in five risk of poverty or social exclusion. Over a period of four
year hit almost 30% of Belgians already in poverty, due to redundancy, illness, divorce and so on.
The groups with the greatest risk of poverty are:
single parents, people without their own home,
single people over 65 and children in disadvantaged
families.
Poverty reduction, each has it's mouth full.
It was officially declared a top priority,
both the Flemish and the federal government. Alone
"They seem to confuse the fight against poverty
a struggle that ended a war against people in
Poverty itself is "as Network coordinator writes against Poverty. Society hardens while
heart still should be above hard.
The minimum social benefits, social benefits and minimum wages have over the last decades a "welfare erosion" known: the government allows their evolution
lag the evolution of the net national
income. Going for the minimum disability benefits
it is a loss of 4% (since 1995), the minimum
Unemployment benefits were 14% and the reverse
living wage 7%. The child went even between 14 and
31% backwards.

Two. Child poverty is rising sharply. Secretary Maggie De Block and Flemish Minister Ingrid Lieten
promised especially focusing on child poverty,
but increases significantly. In Flanders, one
in ten children born into an underprivileged family. That number

8

increased between 2001 and 2012, from 6 to 10.5%. Four
ten single-parent families live in poverty.

Three. A retired five with an income below the poverty line. The Di Rupo government
the minimum pension has increased very slightly
but at the same time she made many pensions down. They halved the pension bonus for those working
and 65 and cut back on the pension of whom
early retires and whose periods
illness or unemployment in his career.
Flemish elderly in poverty 40%
Social isolation and loneliness. 29% of all
Over 65 indicates feel lonely regularly. Loneliness is a disease of our time.

Four. Four out of ten people with disabilities with an allowance for living below the poverty line.
If the extra costs such as special transport and medical
fees may be charged, even life almost
eight out of ten people with disabilities in poverty. One-third of
families with a disabled medical expenses set out for financial reasons.
The disabled in Flanders has a waiting list of 26,000 people.

Five. Being sick makes poor. People with cancer often run aground in a distressing situation. A quarter of
cancer patients who rely on the Cancer Fund, pays, despite recent measures, more
medical expenses than 2,800 euros per year from our own
wallet. That money goes mainly to supplements
on materials, to co-payment on medicines and to

poverty

fees. Half of this group of cancer patients
has an income below the poverty line.
A struggling in eight Belgian households as a
study of the Christian Trade Unions with financial
problems due to a chronic disease. That
can vary from asthma or osteoarthritis to diabetes or high
blood pressure. Families where couples chronic health problems, pay for their health care
monthly average 140 to 200 euros. More than half
of the families with a chronically ill and financial
says problems to forgo necessary care.

Six. There is an explosive increase in the number
people with problem debt. Stood in late 2010
Flanders 144 504 persons with payment difficulties registered at the Central Individual Credit National Bank. That year
registered the Flemish Centre Debt
65 606 cases debt at the CPAS and
CAW's. That is a doubling since 2007.
As for the institutions recognized debt is not financially possible to expand the range of assistance, the sector is faced with nuisance file and keep people in the
lurch. According to the Flemish Centre Indebtedness
most often debts incurred for energy and
utilities (49%), health (36%), installment
of loans (31%) and rent (25%).
Debt situations can both cause and consequence
Poverty. Debts can the physical and mental
health and undermine undermining the social
relationships of people. They may also constitute a barrier to employment.

Seven. Energy poverty is a silent epidemic.
After ten years of liberalization of the electricity is 40% more expensive
become and gas 65%. The lower the income, the
heavier electricity and gas bill weighs in
the family budget. The bare figures dizzy. 11.5
percent of all households in 2010 had at least one
by recorded delivery in the bus. While Electrabel each year 1.3 billion euro profiteering makes in
Long written off nuclear plants survive 100 000
households in Belgium with a budget meter for electricity and gas. Such a budget meter works with prepayment:
you must charge your card to energy
use. Commercial vendors have even
80 000 families who could not pay their bill,
"Dropped". They then pull the plug from heartless.
Why energy poverty? The free market was still "the
ensure supply of electricity to all customers
and protect the elderly and disadvantaged "? Was it
but where. Vulnerable people are all too often
bird for the cat in the jungle of the free energy market. Tailored information is hard to find. Aggressive, deceptive sales techniques make much
victims. Expensive energy contracts do not match with
low incomes and benefits. And even the social rate
expensive. In January 2010 it was 13.5 per cent
kWh in January 2013 already 18.5 cents.

Eight. For many renters, the privéhuurmarkt to
expensive. They stand in the queue for social housing.
26.8% of Flemish families renting a dwelling and
yet Flanders has only 147 000 social housing.
That is barely 5.5% of the homes. In Brussels, the
7.8%. However, in the Netherlands, 32%.
Social housing is vital in the fight
against poverty with social tenants decreasing poverty
risk of 41.8% to 29.9%.
107 308 potential tenants were at the end of 2012
Flemish waiting list for social housing, with
an average waiting period of 970 days. In Brussels
stand 41.000 prospective families on the waiting list.
A leaking roof, damp problems, rotten window frames,
no bath or shower, no toilet indoors, too
dark abode: 30% of all Belgian homes and
53% of the homes of families with incomes
below the poverty line has at least one of
these defects. Unhealthy living conditions
also affect the well-being and school performance of children.

Causes.
A. The Di Rupo government is its promise of
the fight against poverty a priority, failed.
"The fight against poverty and social exclusion is an
government priority, "we read in the government statement. There was even a special state secretary
Poverty: Maggie De Block. She said:
"By the end of the decade there have 380 000
fewer people in poverty. We place particular
focus on fighting child poverty. "But there
killed more than 100 000 poor at.
Two measures of the government against the
unemployed that number will still increase significantly.
- The government decided to unemployment benefits
over time to reduce to below the poverty line. Unemployed will after a certain period of time
(maximum of four years) will only receive a minimum payment: 953 euros per month for single people, which is far below the poverty line. For householders will drop the payment in stages by 12%. For
singles 17.5% and for cohabitants
by 40%.
- Today get unemployed youth after a waiting period
twelve month engagement allowance of
an average of 500 euros per month, the former "waiting allowance". The federal government decided this benefit
after deleting three years for people who do not or
to present adequate work experience. The measure
began in early 2012 and will therefore start 2015
get an impact: 50 000 young jobseekers
threatening thus beginning in 2015 to exclude

9

poverty

of their right to payment, as calculated ABVV.
These young people have to rely on the CPAS.
Not because they are not looking for work, but because they do not
to find a job. It certainly involves young people
their willingness to have all proven otherwise
anyway they have no recourse benefit. The
problem has arisen mainly with the job seekers
not at least 12 months have worked full-time on
18 months; 18 or 27 months, depending on the
age. It therefore concerns whom several small piles interim periods and then re-enters the activation allowance, and for part-time workers.
These two measures are risking more than 100,000
people end up below the poverty line.

Two. Mini-jobs: the German model of working
arms are also gaining in our field. In Germany, the country
Mini-jobs, lives 7.7% of people with jobs
in poverty. As the chief economist of Deutsche arrived
Bank calmly say that many Germans
to prepare for a future with a salary
will not be sufficient to live on. These are the "working poor". In our country, their number amounts to 4.2% of
when working. But beware: with part-time workers is
already 7% and 10% temporary employees. And our government?
That puts precisely in the promotion of the temporary work
and part-time work.
The number of people working together and a living wage
of the CPAS need to make ends meet, is the
doubled last ten years.

Three. The real purchasing power declines, especially for the
weakest. While the millionaires are significantly richer is the
average purchasing power per capita
decreased by 5% since 2009. A survey conducted in 2013
Test-Achats shows that 40% of Belgian households financially (much) worse position than one
year before. 20% say family income is often
issued before the end of the month. They then deleting holidays, childcare and even necessary
medical help because of unfeasible expensive.
Poverty and the decline in purchasing power are the biggest headaches for consumers, according to a study by the Research and Information
Consumers' Organisations (CRIOC).
Of course, everything has become more expensive, even in the
Aldi. And not just groceries. We
know overplayed liberal picture of the
market: "The government should carry no prijzenpolitek.
They should ensure proper market, in competition that keeps prices sharply. "But this highly acclaimed market has created private monopolies that charge customers exorbitant prices, without
the government it has some control.

Four. People with a living wage be hunted. In 2013, 108 300 people were hanging off
a Social Welfare payment, which were 17% more than in
2008. Most of these people get a living

10

wages, the former "subsistence". That is
for a single person and 817 Euros for a cohabiting 544 euros, far below the poverty line. The
term "living wage" is thus chosen an unfortunate
name, she falsely insinuates that you would thereby
live.
The increase in the number of people receiving benefits is greatest in
under 25s. Which already constitute a third of
the minimum income beneficiaries and that number will increase by the
completion of the integration allowance.
The decline in public welfare funds leads here and there to
a wild hunt for recipients. So wish in Antwerp
execute the CPAS President Liesbeth Homans minimum income beneficiaries compulsory unpaid labor. Who refuses,
loses its living wage.
It comes down to this: delete the workforce
the green service, cleaning service, garbage service, cuisine ...
and put on receiving benefits. Inexpensive, and the work continues
done. One sees his job disappear, the other gets
work but receive no pay, no rights to build on
unemployment benefit or pension is not
protected. The living loner remains stuck in the living wage.

Five. The social distress increases, but the government
insists savings on to cities and towns.
More and more people turn to poverty organizations, including dual-earner which ends no more
can make ends meet, even middle-class people. 20% more people seeking support from associations
where the poor speak. At the same time there is a process
of reduction and savings going on at the CPAS and
social services.
Meanwhile taken up municipal taxes, for example,
water and waste and which proportionately especially
take arms, upwards.
The Network Against Poverty complains that many
municipalities since the banking crisis no money
have to fulfill their social missions. Elderly people can not go in the CPAS retirement, young parents should look for too much
expensive commercial nursery, school and swimming
forest classes are abolished, social service centers
finished. Services which especially families
poverty call, closing and staff
it is put on the street. Public service
becomes more expensive or privatized.
That the federal government the living wage but limited
degree reimburse the CPAS is unfair and undermines solidarity. The poor municipalities with many
minimum income beneficiaries pay more than the municipalities with
a prosperous population, including counseling
of those receiving benefits.

poverty

disabled or receiving benefits in a civilized country like
Belgium must live under the poverty line.

The vision of the PTB +
Poverty is a reality for more and more people.
It is certainly not just a matter for the homeless or
pink sellers in restaurants. They today affects half a million Belgians and their number is increasing. You should already
two incomes to have as a family head above
water to be able to hold. And anyone can hit
by unemployment or illness. Resisting
Poverty is much needed in a world in which all the
pedals lose.
The gap between rich and poor has never been greater. What does it actually say the gap between
poor and rich? That is to say that a number of people
victims of the crisis, and that a number of people
benefit from the crisis. The victims are very
many, and the winners are very few. However, there is
a connection between the two. The French writer Victor
Hugo wrote two centuries ago: "With Hell
the poor has created a paradise for the rich. "However,
which simple observation, the wealth of one
poverty is of the other, is today one of the
biggest taboos in our society.
When it took office, the government announced that the
fight against poverty was her priority. She explained: "Labor is generally the best remedy
combating poverty. "But instead of work
create, she has destroyed jobs where they themselves
was directly responsible: the public
services.
The Di Rupo government threw the blame on the people
At the bottom. Against unemployed she said she did not
had actively sought enough, if they found a job. Sick she demanded that they "are responsible
should feel "of the elderly that they must more
work. The government pursued an aggressive policy of
stringent activation. That leads very often to accept mini-jobs and unstable work, and to exclusion.
The government has social security further reduced. Socially insured slid further towards
social assistance and social assistance slid direction
"Activation of the poor", which amounts to a yacht
on arms. Thus, the government increased the pressure
on the labor market and wages. Result: in place
people from the terrible poverty statistics
pick up, she pushed a lot of people in. She produced
new poor.

Tackling poverty means that we have to make choices. Since it is about. We want all benefits and incomes below the poverty line,
above the limit of human dignity are drawn. It can not be that pensioners, unemployed,

All incomes and benefits above the poverty line
lifting costs about 1.5 billion euros. That is a lot of money.
But everyone acknowledges that it is a shame that this
but does not happen. The government? Which has this objective simply put in the refrigerator. The notional
Interest cost our country's annual gross 6.2 billion.
That's even more money. Four times as much. And they have
nothing has contributed to prosperity and jobs, but more on the dividends of the large
shareholders and the bonuses of the great CEOs. You
can say anything, but do not say it is not possible
she is lifting all payments above the limit of human dignity. This is about choices. Fundamental
choices about the future of our society. The
is high time to tackle poverty more important
then a gift tax policy for the very rich.
How poverty structural and sustainable fight?
Over there are many proposals and action points
our program. Because poverty is not just an
theme. She is repeatedly discussed: the theme
of the crisis, employment, purchasing power,
health, education, justice, the environment ...
The requirements are in our opposition to poverty than
not only the poor benefit. Rather, they are
general than selective. They bridge the gap between the
poverty movement and the trade union movement.
So there must, in order to fight poverty, are a different distribution of wealth and prosperity.
We also have to win the fight for work. On the
question: "How to prevent poverty?" crosses 43% the box
to "No hunting the unemployed, but unemployment". The opposite of what the government does.
Decent work as a matter of protest against poverty
and social exclusion. That real, permanent job with a
decent income, we propose in our hatch employment.
Or again: we want to protect the purchasing power of the
workers, but also of the people on benefits. We wish all of them the prices under
maintain control.
The link between poverty and the trade union movement
movement, there is also in the battle for the preservation of
social security. Without that social security would
42% of Belgians live in poverty. Inequality fight is a crucial part of social security and
we want to stay that way. Among other things, therefore, is 80%
of Belgians against the commodification of social
security.
We give twelve proposals in this chapter with the
urgent action against poverty.

11

poverty

6. There are 200 000 new social housing in Belgium necessary to eliminate the waiting lists.

The proposals of the PTB +
1. All replacement incomes go up to the
European poverty line. We support this
main demand of the Anti-Poverty Network. The
Court calculated a few years ago that this
measure 1.2 billion euro cost (now 1.5 billion). There
are the 6.2 billion euro of notional interest deduction and the 6 billion euros for the purchase of the
warplanes Pieter De Crem opposite.
The law guarantees the right to a living wage. That
living wage should people allow themselves socially
(re) integration. It should at least on the
Lie European poverty line (1 000 euro per person) and must not be made dependent on
merely activating economically. We advocate that the
federal government pays the living wage to 100%.

2. No hunting the unemployed but unemployment.
- The government measures of exclusion and gradual reduction in unemployment benefits should
away.
- I n place of the aggressive, punitive activation we want a practice of emancipating
activation. Stop the activation programs and replace them with guidance for programs that
respect is shown for the unemployed and for
their targets and problems.
-E
? r should be more training, paid by
the government and the companies.
-W
? e want regional employment services
VDAB, Actiris, Forem and a single federal
merged institution which offers work throughout the
country to job seekers from all Regions.
- The privatization of the placement policy, CareerBuilder
and Actiris for employment agencies, is pernicious. This
offices adhere only with the easiest
place unemployed busy. Education comes in
these commercial counselors no longer discussed.

3. Increased resources for the social tasks of the
local authorities.
Stop the privatization of public services.
Also stop the increase in municipal taxes.

4. Make all social welfare benefits fixed.
5. Strengthen the first pension pillar. In addition to child poverty in single-parent families, the poverty
the most common among the elderly, because of the much too low
pensions. We want to increase the lowest
pensions.

12

We want to limit rental rates, depending on the
condition and comfort of the property, determined by
An independent accredited body.
We also strive for a Marshall Plan for insulation and
renovation of abandoned dwellings.
7. 24% of respondents calls a 'reduction
the cost of hospitals and medicines. " This is possible with the introduction of the kiwi

model

medicines. So we can necessarily

ke drugs and painkillers make free.

We also want the government support
of low-threshold and multi-disciplinary primary healthcare centers, modeled on the community health centers and group practices of Medicine for the People. These centers prove their worth in
providing health care to vulnerable
groups in society.

8. Automatic allocation of the RVV statute
(Owner of Increased Compensation Insurance) who are entitled to see.
The beneficiaries of this status (formerly known
Called Omnio status) in addition to the right
an allowance for medical care
also entitled to rent subsidies, public transport (50%
discount), adult education, travel assistance (lower
franchise), social telephone tariff ... But there is / was a
large gap between the estimated number of beneficiaries
and the persons that effectively make use of the statute.

9. We will endeavor to maintain the pro-Deoregeling legal assistance, we resist
against VAT duty imposed from 2014
21% for the legal profession.
10. The compulsory education really free
are. The indirect costs are to be fully funded as well. There should be an automatic
award come from the grants.
We also want an education that fights inequality. A common core to sixteen
is a good means.

11. Prohibition on concluding electricity, gas
and water.
We strive for anchoring in the constitution
the right to public utilities like electricity, water
and gas.
We call for the abolition of the budget meters
natural gas, and for the expansion of social
rate.

12. Protect and restore purchasing power.
- A decent income intervenes in all dimensions
that lead to poverty. Increase the minimum wage.
No mini-jobs.

poverty

- "The safeguard index: wages and benefits must
rise along with the real increase in the cost of living "requires 52% of those polled in the election survey. But 36% asks: "Maximum prices for import commodities such as housing,
nutrition and energy. "
-2
? 00 000 Belgians requested through a petition to the
WPB + to make energy cheaper due to the introduction of 6% VAT for electricity and gas, in
cost of the energy sector. That is much more than
only electricity and only until 2015, as the government has decided. Can an average family
bring this measure to 280 euros per year.

13

14

p
O
t

h
c
a
j
k
a
a
m

d
i
e
h
s
O
O
l
k
r
e
w
e
d

e
d
p
O
t
nie
!
n
e
z
O
l
work
I want
a job!

15

I want
a job!

work

GoLeft # 2: Make hunt on unemployment,
not on the unemployed
The election survey by the WPB
28% of respondents think that "work" among the top three among the problems that we must address first. The first requirement to the question "How poverty
? avoid "comes" No hunting the unemployed, but unemployment ".
Under the theme "The future for the youth", that 21% of people tick as a theme for the top three, is "work" the first requirement: "Right to work.
Permanent jobs at a decent wage. "(59%)
To the question "What guarantee work for all?" Crosses 43%: "Replace
older workers by extending youth instead of retirement. " 29% support "Creating Additional Jobs in the public sector:
health, education, public transportation, tax administration ... "(with
the proceeds from the millionaire's tax). And 21% want "profitable large companies
prohibition to discard people. "

Findings
A. The main problem for the employment is
the shortage of jobs. In Brussels, 48 ​​people competing for one job in Flanders, there are 10
for one job. Average for our country: 17 for one job. In October 2013 there were only 35 500 job offers
for a total of 595 000 job seekers: one job offer for 17 job seekers.
The service tickets - insecure work is heavily subsidized by the government - were the last
for years the main channel through which new jobs
retaliatory. We count those temporarily out of competition, then the lies
total paid employment in 2013 just in the
2008 level: there are nearly 3.67 million jobs.

Two. The government requires the elderly to more
work ... The Di Rupo government built the early retirement continued to decline and she pulled the age for early
pension from 60 to 62 years. From 2015 is 40 years
career required for early retirement at 60 years. The
career length which entitles early
pension, the government went up from 35 to 40 years (for
employed persons), and from 5 to 40 years
for officials.

16

Older people are more obliged to work while
youth unemployment adds considerably to the pan.
And all traditional parties want, after the election,
early retirement altogether dismantle, duration
Extending working lives and even more for
Some legal age for retirement even
raising from 65 to 67 years.

Three. ... and let youth unemployment
or insists they are unstable work. One in five
young people in Belgium are unemployed. In Ghent and Antwerp
that one in four in Brussels and more than one in three.
Their situation is very fragile: two in five do
a "turn-stage" and have none at all
income and a further two in five received only
but the minimum activation allowance. (For cohabitants is 234 euro and 373 euro for -18 year olds
from 18 years.)
Worse, one in eight young people have no job, follows
no training and no qualifications secondary
education. A lost generation.

work

The policy places the full responsibility for that
state at the young people themselves, although there is simply not
enough work. The government made the sanctions after
negative evaluation of the VDAB stricter. You should like
young unemployed to meet more and more requirements,
sign up for more talks, may submit more documents. The low-skilled and
Victims of discrimination in the labor market,
already have the hardest, go there first to feel the effects.
The young people who make a switching stage, which
So even received no payment will be
targeted. There are two controls introduced: in the 7th and
in the 11th month of the internship. You need two positive
evaluations have to be on the end of the 12th month
entitled to the integration allowance. For
many young people will lead to yet again
delay before they are entitled to benefits. The federal government has these savings already budgeted at 61.8
million. This corresponds to 15 000 young people
who see renewed their internship with at least 6 months, as
calculated the ACV.
Thus, unemployed people in a very precarious situation that they deem to accept any job. Therefore, the pressure on wages and working conditions is increasing. One in four working youngster has
part-time work and nearly one in three has a temporary
contract. The Di Rupo government pushed this type of uncertain
work by extending the concept of "temporary work".
Until September 1, 2013, an employer could only
contracts for temporary workers to permanent signs
to temporarily replace employees to cope with a temporary increase in production and a
some exceptional circumstances. But now he can
also recruit people with an interim contract "prior to any permanent recruitment". Which
broader interpretation will lead to a sharp rise
temporary work.
An examination of the ABVV pointed out: two-thirds
the temporary workers will end no contract
indefinitely. Interim Labour is not a stepping stone to
more steady work. It's the reverse: more and more solid
work changes in staffing activities. "How can you still
independent start building your life, family
establish, take out a loan to buy a house? "
the KAJ wonders in his black book staffing activities.
Another sure way to precarious work is the
growth of the business internships. While there are just not
enough jobs, the policy insists it
main problem is that the training of young people and
the needs of the market are poorly coordinated. In other words, young people are not good
or not adequately trained. Separately, companies
meet barely half of their statutory obligations on investment in education (1.9% of
the wage bill). But even worse, the company internships
often a thinly veiled way to recruit staff dirt cheap. The Minister for Employment
Monica De Coninck will create 10 000 work placements for which

I want
a job!

employers pay a wage of 1.3 euros per hour -
on top of the power-payment by the government.
If that is not a godsend! Carrefour rejoiced
ensure that the young people in Brussels can recruit almost free.
These courses are a form of underpaid work,
heavily subsidized and without any obligation for
the employer. They are more a hindrance than a
springboard for work: they can in the enterprise
real, stable jobs replaced.
Little by little we get here as the German model
Mini-jobs. And young people are leaving the guinea pig.

Four. The nations are desperately looking for work,
the others work is destroyed by the infernal
speed and flexibility. While hundreds of thousands
people sit down to nail biting, Belgian workers is still the most productive on the European scene. Belgium is at the top of the rankings
in terms of productivity, with a median of 239 000 euros
realized turnover per full-time equivalent.
The infernal pace and the flexi-jobs immediately offer
an explanation of why the Belgian employee is often ill for his 65th. Almost half of workers aged 55 and 65 have disorders
musculature, bone or joints. There is
many RSI (Repetitive Strain Injury of the English): damage by physical overload.
Many people are simply "on": stress, overvoltage,
burnout, depression. Stress at work and health play according to a survey of the Flemish
Government a significant role in the decision to go or early retirement, as employees
this can choose. 50% think that their work
has become heavy. That research also indicates that
us many more people than in our neighboring countries off
count faced with problems of stress at work.
It pushed up work rhythm, repetitive actions,
the unsociable working hours, the uncertainty interim labor and all kinds of new working conditions
cause the new stress diseases. People stand
under constant time pressure. We have clocks
and chronometers than ever but we have no time.
Sooner or later, the body that pressure no longer and
the resistor breaks down.
Nevertheless, the Di Rupo government did vote on a law in 2013
which makes it possible to expand the number of overtime hours: from 65 to 143 hours per year. That's an average of three
overtime per week.
The government also facilitates "annualisation"
of working time: the employer may you one
bout a little more and the other period less
hours of work, as long as the average but is respected. Since the new law simply one
agreement with union representatives about
annualisation at parity level to automatically on them
To participate in the work regulations of each company covered by the joint level. Previously had
that change the work rules in any business

17

I want
a job!

work

have been unanimously approved by the council
before they could apply in that business. All issues
that worsen the stress at work.

Five. The government sets a bad example: they
removes many government jobs. Thank the Government
people and let tons of jobs "extinction": The
railways, in the post, in finance, in the city and so on. At all levels of government
a staff reduction. The government replaces
only one in three vacant posts. Especially
the least qualified jobs disappear, which affects the
opportunities for low-skilled workers to find work yet
but at that.
- In five years, the number of federal civil servants fell by 5.5%, more than 4500 jobs were there
lost.
- The number of Flemish civil servants went in that period
with 1500 down and in 2014 we shall still there
once in 1400 bites up.
- The decline will be the reform of the civil service and state secretary Hendrik Bogaert
Minister continue Geert Bourgeois.
- The cities and municipalities in Flanders stand
according to a study of the ACV 25 000 jobs
the hill. So stand in Antwerp 1420 jobs at the
tour especially at the parks department, the waste collection
and the ZNA hospitals. Many maintenance jobs and
technical jobs where low-skilled workers could come, disappear.
- The public companies were also lost a lot of employment: gone on for ten years in the post
more than 7,000 jobs, and the NMBS too.

Six. The government subsidizes companies
cut jobs. It makes it easier for employers to dismiss staff.
The policy is a function of the competitiveness and development of the large transnational corporations. The government allows large enterprises to
act freely. She has a lot of her
power to intervene, ceded. The EU
put that policy on the tracks, the Belgian and Flemish
Government follow it closely.
The government is trying to attract investment,
especially from abroad, but at the same time which may
businesses again absconded disappear
whenever they feel good. Opel Antwerp, Ford Genk
and ArcelorMittal much opportunity officially protest
not coming to major restructuring and closures. Potential new investors would even
the least restriction may as a negative signal
understand it, is the reasoning. Multinationals have carte
blanche: they go wherever they want.
"Ai, ai, ai ... I am powerless," said Flemish Minister-President Kris Peeters about Ford Genk. "On his knees
a man is always powerless, "said union representative Gaby Colebunders. Employees are not
disposable tissues. Know prime minister Peeters

18

not dismissed on the legislation in many countries much
stricter? In the Netherlands, for instance, companies must respond to objective criteria to collective redundancies ('prudential dismissal ")
pass. One of these criteria is that they are onerous
are. In Germany, the union has a right of veto
in the works by major restructuring.
But Peeters and his coalition partners pretend here
their nose bleeds. Despite the wave of layoffs in
profitable companies like Ford, ArcelorMittal, Caterpillar and AB InBev, there is still no law that
penalties may be imposed on companies that lay off staff or close, after subsidies and tax gifts
received.
Comparative European studies, with several
took into account factors such as notice periods, the
termination benefits, redundancy procedures, mandatory grounds for dismissal and so showed
in 2009 Belgium with a number 10 among the countries
in Europe, where the employer is most easily
dismiss. France and Germany had a grade 40
Netherlands and the numeral 70, and the average for the
OECD countries was 26.
The European Restructuring Monitor (ERM) calculates
major restructuring in Europe
Member States. This monitor has a database of 16,000
scale restructuring - each with at least
100 lost and new jobs. The
some restructuring in job losses is twice as large as those with jobcreaties.
When we have in the last ten years, 28 major restructurings caused a combined loss of 58,000 jobs: but with multinationals
even with (semi) public companies.
Conversely, the monitor comes to us to barely 28 713
new jobs through restructuring. It is then
to 800 jobs at KBC in 2006; 2300 at Fortis Bank
and in 2000 at Suez in 2007; 1800 by SNCB in 2009;
and 800 by the STIB in 2012. For the banks goes
the period prior to the banking crisis. Saw afterwards
they committed themselves to iron sailing. Public enterprises
must respect the strict budget requirements: they
have created jobs, but then other
deleted.
The federal and provincial government remain large
Meanwhile enterprises pampered.
The research department of the PTB + calculated that thousand
Belgian companies which jointly in 2012
realized profit of 50 billion euros, it only
6.17% paid taxes.
They could thus enjoy a tax rebate of 14
billion.
These people are then overloads the "an
disaster for the investment climate. " The contrary
is true. Subtract create new jobs? The
answer is: no. Employment in 2012 by the thousand companies concerned showed a decrease
the number of staff by 7%, accounting for a
19. loss of 646 full-time jobs.

work

Then there was the decline in social contributions
employers, which allows for their commitments
Social Security continually reduce. The counter
of that drop is today already at 5.03 billion euros.
There are wage subsidies through reductions
of income for overtime, night work
and so on. Already running at up to 2.7 billion euros. The economist Frederic Panier explained to the Chamber
which according to international studies, all such reductions
almost no influence on employment.
It's just the gifts that their companies
profits increase and their position on the stock market
improve.
On top of this weakness, the federal government on the protection of workers from dismissal. The reform
the statute collar workers an employer can dismiss an employee up to 40% cheaper. The extension of the notice period for workers in the new
statute, in turn, will largely be paid by
the state.

The vision of the PTB +
It is often said that the fire of the financial
crisis has spilled over to the real economy, but it
is not true. It is the other way around. It all started in the
real economy, the production of goods and services. The crisis of overproduction was temporarily overshadowed by financial bubbles. When it burst, the system creaked at the seams.
Crises are rooted in the capitalist system. In the market economy will make any business profit as much as possible. This is necessary in order to manufacture re-
can invest to make more profit. Or
a company increases its capital continuously determines
whether it survives or perishes. As a race result: pile up the most capital, invest more,
greater innovation and faster time to attune
cyclical changes. In that competition mechanism every company is looking for the lowest production cost. Because all companies do that, increasing production and declining purchasing power in the meantime. That has sometimes
burst. That is an inherent contradiction. The
strive to pile on the supply side of capital
and to be able to produce more, impinges on the demand side
with the decline of purchasing power.
Even today, restructuring and closing businesses
and millions of people suddenly have no more labor. The companies were "lean and mean" slim
and mean. Slim, which is the term used in neat
Companies whole branches are deleted or outsourced
to contractors and subcontractors. The businesses

I want
a job!

were lean and mean and profits grew again
dizzying heights. No, capitalism can
not a fundamental solution to the problem
of work.
What's that for a society that allows people to work at a wage that they can not survive, to
a furious pace and at hours that come out just the boss? How is it that the nations have too little work,
and the others too? How can the elderly
longer have to work and young people do not get started
can? How could people in the prime of their
life are forced to do? When
labor, which ensures the prosperity of the
society, so be squandered, we have a
society problem.
It is all irrational. How can the government maintain that they defend our employment, if the state
destroys so many jobs? Why gifts
continue to give to fill the bottomless pits of large multinationals hoping in that way to work
create, and do not invest in public employment? Why dismiss easier and no
impose sanctions on companies that lay off?
The logic of the competitiveness defended by our government, leading to job insecurity,
Blocked wages and poor working conditions.
That will exacerbate the crisis and the future of
destroy an entire generation.
That multinationals must be able to come, but
just as quickly be able to leave again, has led to industrial decline: the steel and automotive, textile and glass factories, shipyards
and manufacturing, sectors in the us
past reputation gave, are largely
disappeared. This is not just a shift, but
a destruction which is nothing in place. The
leads to a reduction in exports and a poorer
trade balance.
The Belgian economic policy makers want the country
Hooking the German locomotive, to the country
most exports and the strongest economic
relationships disposal. That's very dangerous. Our government
thus has no control over the event,
dependent as it is on the German results. The regional differences between north and south of the country
thereby in fact very small.
A candle burning for German growth, more states
Belgian short-term not. We suggest
a totally different strategy. An active strategy
which leaves real public services for the population. There are one employment and the population's interest.
This strategy also puts again the issue of the
redistribution of the available work on the table. We
produce more with fewer people. We can do it
Available division of labor and thereby the purchasing power
retained. In the first place by a better Regula-

19

I want
a job!

work

sharing between the generations, with older work
can pass. But also by a division of
production quotas between the different sites
same multinational in place of some sites
closing and another site a hellish rhythm again on
to lay.
Our youth have a right to a stable future.
Temporary work should be the exception and the steady work
rule. If society does not offer enough job,
they must guarantee the right to social security entirety. Activation should not be aggressive sanctioning
but must be emancipated and you have the chance you
integration through work in society.
With aim tons of tax gifts and grants
on job creation in the private sector, no,
does not work. Instead, we aim at creating employment in the public services. The government
should the people who are affected by unemployment are no longer left out in the cold. When the banking crisis, the free market was put aside to intervene
against "the greed of the bankers", as the Government
named it after himself. When the economic crisis
the free market but to step aside, and the need
Government intervene decisively to protect jobs
against "the greed of the industrial bosses' and itself
create jobs.
91% of respondents in our election survey is strongly agree or tend to agree with the
thesis: "To combat the crisis, the government should
intervention in the economy. They must leave the
needs of the people, not profit. "
And that starts with the creation of jobs in the government. There are enormous needs, eg in the area
environmental protection, social housing, isolation
buildings, energy, healthcare, education ...
The workers and trade unionists from these sectors
sliding it needs itself forward. We want
that there will be a decisive plan to finance the
Proceeds from the millionaire's tax.
Finally, the workers have to InBev in 2009-2010,
their strike against the relocation of 450 jobs
to Eastern Europe, launched the idea redundancies
prohibit companies that in previous years yet
were paying dividends. The idea was, inter alia,
acquired by the trade union delegation
Caterpillar Gosselies against an imminent restructuring. We must put an end to the absurd
incongruity that a major company subsidies
can get, can rake in profits and yet can destroy thousands of jobs ... and without problems
get away with.

The proposals of the PTB +
1. Young people at work, the elderly retired. Elderly people should earlier (full or partial) to rest
can and as required by the social Maribel
Youth are replaced: the right to early retirement at
58 years (after 38 years of career) with mandatory recruitment
of a juvenile. No New Generation Pact and no
another extension of the career.

2. We strive for decent work and a stable
income.
- "Fit" work shall be a work related
keeps with what has studied one, full time,
for a minimum working period of one year and paid at least at the level of the minimum wage.
- Temporary work must remain strictly reserved for
exceptional and temporary circumstances. Temporary employees should have the right to respect and a
good guidance.
- Bids must be in the office
take place. We do not want people systematically
to the Internet are referred.
- Each application must have a personal reply
follow.
- Nepwerkaanbiedingen at employment agencies, which the
arouse false illusion that there is work, prohibitions
be.
For a full and comprehensive rights to social

security.

Next periods must count to full right
to benefit from social security: student jobs, internships,
days worked under part-time
education, training of public services
employment, the period of forced inactivity between two insecure contracts (temporary
contract, interim, consecutive internships).

3. We oppose precarious jobs.
Interim work:
- We oppose the expansion of legal
the temporary employment. Appealing to temporary workers must meet the old statutory criteria related to exceptional circumstances,
and must be strictly limited in time.
- We want permanent contracts. Temporary contracts
we want to limit to a maximum of six months at a
years, then must follow a permanent contract.
- We resist against after a new trial
temporary employment with the same employer.
State aid to enterprises:
- Employment Grants may not be used to replace stable jobs: ban

20

work

dismissal of active workers to immediately there
then recruit others.
- Internships may not replace jobs.
- Companies must fulfill their commitment to
associated with vocational training (1.9% of the total payroll invest in training and 2% of GDP in
innovation).

- Specific training for the company must
are paid in full and be part of the trial.
- The bodies responsible for supporting the unemployed
should be strictly separated from the services of
the NEO (such as 2004). The checks of the NEO
can only apply to young people who all right
have a full unemployment benefit. There
No Checks may be done during the "power on time". Involvement Internships should concretely
offer perspective on available jobs. Youngsters
should not be required for any job
to assume, simply because they no income
sit. All vacancies to be centralized by the bodies responsible for the
help the unemployed.

4. Bearable working conditions, not yet
more flexibility.
- Repeal of the law that the regime of overtime
expands and simplifies the annualisation of working time.
- Restoration of the maximum overtime limit per quarter
at 65 hours. In times of high unemployment, the
not appropriate to allow more overtime.
- We aim for a reduction of working time
per week, with wage preservation without increasing
the work rhythm and with additional recruitment.

5. Aim new public companies, unblock public investment in jobs and innovation.
- Municipal or intermunicipal social construction companies, the construction or renovation of housing
take on. The construction of 25,000 homes per
year can produce 50,000 jobs. The school building must make up a backlog. These social
construction companies can also handle better
insulation of homes and for adapting
all homes with safety standards.
- Public transport must guarantee social
and environmentally sound transportation of people
and goods. Both the SNCB and De Lijn,
STIB and TEC are new investments and jobs
required.

I want
a job!

7. public welfare sectors, such as education
and enhance care.
- To improve the quality and school failure
we want to avoid in the first three years of
primary education no more than 15 pupils per
class. There are 25 000 additional places required in
primary education.
- Child Care (st) ers in cribs, toddler policy (st) ers,
nurses and care staff in nursing
nursing homes, accommodating disabled: everywhere and for all ages, there is a pressing
staff shortages in health care. There are between ten and
twenty additional staff needed
in care.
We should, by 2030 at least 40 homes per
year built, each with 80 seats. Here wish
some absorb the shortfall by a proliferation
of privérusthuizen, but we do not want homes
which make profits on hood of the elderly.
- We want to preserve the existing government jobs in the civil service. We want the current
stop loss.

The millionaire's tax would at least 8 billion euros
revenue concerns. 3 billion would serve directly
for creating government jobs and 2 billion
for the refinancing of the education and the
scientific research, which are essential in an employment policy.

8. We want to complicate layoffs in the private sector.
- We want a law InBev collective dismissals
prohibits companies that pay dividends. A
company that does not follow this law, all
granted tax and social tax cuts and
all public support to pay back immediately.
- We want a law scrapping more difficult.
Belgium is in the EU today the country with dismissal
Employers no reason to give up. Belgium
to ratify Convention 158 of the International Labour Organisation. Which states that there are reasonable grounds
motive should be to resign and the employee
should have the opportunity to defend themselves against it.
- The rules for collective redundancies should apply everywhere, regardless of the size of the company.

6. The public sector should be the leader in innovation
are. We want investment in public weeks

tific research go up to 3%
GDP.

21

22

€ € € €
€ € € €
€ € €
€

As
t
a
a
m
i
l
the K
s
a
w
k
n
a ba

t
e
h
s
a
then w
d
e
r
e
g
already

23

€ € € €
€ € € €
€ € €
€

climate

GoLeft # 3: A social vision on climate
The election survey by the WPB
12% of respondents checked "environment" for the top third of the
problems that we must address first, 8% checked "climate" on it.
Question: "How to protect the environment and climate?"
Answer of 37% of the respondents: "Public changeover
green energy". 30% want "Transportation of goods over long distances:
required by rail or boat, "and 25% want" isolation of all homes
with support from the government. "

Findings
A. Rather buy emission rights abroad than reducing CO2 emissions.

In the framework of the Kyoto Protocol itself ventured Belgium
reluctantly to a commitment: in the period
2008-2012 average, 7.5% fewer greenhouse gases
emissions than in 1990. That was a meager commitment
well below what according to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) is required. Nevertheless ran
with this commitment immediately error: only Wallonia
wanted to go for the full -7.5%. Flanders held it up
-5.2% And + 3.5% in Brussels. That too low ambitions
Regions had to catch the federal government through
the purchase of emission rights from abroad.
Europe also has to realize planned reductions: by 2020 it wants 15% less greenhouse gases
emissions than in 2005. That is not ambitious enough, and
again get the various governments do not look
which region how much emissions (emissions) must reduce. The federal government or pleaded to the international negotiations for ambitious targets, but in practice did not much death.
The deal between the regions has its foisted a purchase obligation of allowances.
Companies will be rewarded with certificates that their right
give a certificate, a certain amount of CO2
emit. These are emissions rights. If they Certificates
they keep on selling, so CO2
gets a prize. With the purchase of allowances
the government should compensate the excessive emissions and
as the new European norms.
But no worries, because the price of those allowances
collapsed. The government bought so much that

24

they could build a nice piggy bank, deal with it
piggy new emission rights to purchase ... to bring it all to reduce emissions
in the next Kyoto phase (2013-2020). In this way
of course, never touched the emissions under control: there
emission certificates are bought and meanwhile the go
emissions.
Although Flanders not even aspired to the Belgian
To meet Kyoto target (-7.5%), the Flemish began
Government nevertheless once allowances are in store for
Meanwhile, a value of 50 million euros. But
by the crisis, the Flemish emissions decreased by more
than the 5.2% which was provided. The surplus
allowances were auctioned with the proceeds ...
new certificates to purchase if the economy
recovers.
The Flemish Climate Plan 2013-2020 is downright
disappointing. Flanders already has a great development in the field of science and technology, yet
eight-Peeters, the Flemish government is not possible
even to achieve the modest European target (-15% emissions by 2020). Therefore plant they already buy foreign emission rights and thus the slide
greening of production and investment in renewable energy on the back burner.
The Climate Plan limits the role of government
to "create the right incentives for the
businesses and entrepreneurs to invest
in innovation and the use of low-carbon technologies, processes and systems. "There is therefore no
roadmap and no equipment plan. There will be only
economic "incentives". All remains completely

climate

without obligation. The policy for the development of a green economy therefore does not mean much. There is no
plan to cut emissions annually. The Flemish
Government counts on the non-binding commitments from
companies, in exchange for cheap loans. Provide them
only a road tax.

Two. In the grip of the market. Why Electrabel & co a green revolution stand in the way.
Sustainable and affordable energy, it should be a fundamental right. But in Europe liberalized gas and electricity and privatized: society does not determine how we take care of our energy,
but multinationals. In Belgium, 85 percent of all
power in the hands of only four European
energy giants GDF SUEZ (Electrabel), EDF (Luminus)
ENI (formerly Nuon) and RWE (Essent). Who care only about the direct and immediate utility
their action: to make money. For nature they have just
as for society, only in function of eye
which direct utility. And vengeance.
Electrabel thus continues to swear by its nuclear plants
Doel and Tihange. Which annually deliver 1.3 billion euros
on usury - a gain which Electrabel hardly pays taxes. But a solution to the
Radioactive waste is not there. And Fukushima did not
made it clear how dangerous nuclear power is?
Yet, the federal government decided that Electrabel
old power plant Tihange I can still 10 years longer
operate. The benefits are for GDF Suez, the risks to
the society.
48% of electricity in Belgium is green. On paper sommig
at least. Because make no mistake, green electricity is fake, nine
ten chances. There seems to be no problem with the air, however. Green power is on the rise. Today, there is in front of the
consumer choice was between green power contracts.
Good for the climate and air quality? Unfortunately, what
vendors sell as green electricity, is simply
from the Doel nuclear power plant and the gas plant of Jemeppe-sur-Sambre, or from coal plants. Electrabel &
co flog gray electricity as green power. Because
rather than to invest in wind turbines, biogas plants or solar panels, they buy green labels,
so-called "guarantees of origin" at dumping prices on the international market. Grey power
green crops, and it is not even illegal.
Thus it is that in Belgium, according to official statistics
barely 7 percent green electricity is produced. The majority of them still in biomass plants.
At that converted coal plants burn
Electrabel and E.on wood pellets from ... the distant Canada.
Environmental organizations prance, but officially delivers the controversial technique actually 'green' power on - and
much profit, thanks to the substantial subsidies from the Flemish
government.
In Europe, annually 200 million megawatt hours
current green crops, which is the power consumption of

€ € € €
€ € € €
€ € €
€

sixty million families. And Belgium's number one.
We are the largest importer of green labels
Europe. The majority of these labels come from Scandinavia, mainly from the Norwegian hydropower. Norway is the green champion of Europe. With them
six hundred hydro power plants and wind farms
succeed the Norwegians manage almost all their energy sustainability
to excite. Electricity flows to Norwegian
living rooms, but the green label using
brokers, brokers, on the international
market sold. It's a scam, pure fiction. Because
so many green certificates to foreign power companies are bartered, Norway produces
officially only 23% green energy while each Noor
knows that his current one hundred percent
the hydropower plants on the fjord and from windmills
comes.
The green labels cost peanuts, not yet 30
cents per megawatt hour. For finicky amount
from 1 euro to Electrabel & co power steenkoolof gas plants green. It is much cheaper
green purchasing labels than investing in Belgium
green power.
Because coal prices have collapsed and the
CO2 emission rights just as much, the energy multinationals are investing heavily in coal power plants. Coal
is back from never been gone. The energy giants burning coal that it is a delight. That
was not the intention, of course. Energy coal
After all emit a lot of CO2, as well as high concentrations of particulate matter, nitrogen oxides and sulfur oxides. But the
Emission allowance costs twice nothing. Who chooses
coal, is barely addressed in the pollution. And so there is the comeback of the black
gold. The power distributors to import electricity from coal which Germany and the Netherlands to Belgium. It is
a disaster for the climate.
Meanwhile, that same stream multinationals put their
brand new, energy-efficient gas plants in Belgium
quiet. The CEOs have made clear their account:
in comparison with a gas plant will add a small
coal plant per year nearly sixty million extra
in the drawer. No, to the blind law of the maximum
Profit can not thousand Kyoto's change.
Meanwhile, wash the collected gas giants, GDF
Suez on Shell to Gazprom, the new energy source
green: hallelujah, shale gas will revolutionize the
ensuring energy sector.
But the authoritative Nature degrades shale gas to a very unfriendly environment fuel
even more damaging than coal. Scientists warn of groundwater contamination, harmful
emissions, disturbance of biodiversity and risk
earthquakes. Several European countries have therefore prohibit the dangerous extraction of shale gas.
However, the geology department of the KU Leuven has
initial funding for research into shale gas to
suits. Shell already cast an eye on shale gas under the
Quiet Kempen. Because money is thicker than water.

25

€ € € €
€ € € €
€ € €
€

climate

That shale gas ecological filth
is being dismissed with the inexorable argument
that shale gas to market yields lots of money. Gang
or not, the multinational corporations throwing themselves in the rush to
shale gas.
Were not solemn oaths sworn that the free market
climate would save? And that old-fashioned government intervention therefore had to leave? Promise and hold is two.
What our politicians call the free market hides in
reality a large cash flow, of John Doe
to the cash registers of European energy giants. Electrabel and co pay on their profiteering barely
taxes. The Di Rupo government did not even yet
a penny on top. They decided gas plants that make enough profit to customize with tax money.
The green power policy of the Flemish government
is literally bankrupt.
Anyone with money invested in solar panels in recent years, attracted by the Flemish
subsidies. Fewer than half of these subsidies go to
large solar parks. Industrialists and bankers stomped around 4721 parks out of the ground as a mere
investment. Fernand Huts of Katoennatie example
left his pilots in the port of Antwerp lay full of solar panels, making him 10 million euro subsidy per
year yields, even twenty years. And who pays the
account? We. The large-scale solar farms costs
consumers 75 to 150 euros per year. The Flemish
Government has decided that the solar subsidies
to be passed in the energy bill of the
families. So everyone pays them. The poor also,
people who can not pay their energy bills and a budget meter (about) life, with pay
for panels of billionaire Fernand Huts.
That the solar subsidies have been phased out in the meantime,
nothing will change that glaring injustice. The Flemish government does not want to touch the "acquired
rights "of the 4721 industrial solar parks. They remain twenty years subsidies pull at our expense.
Minister Freya Van den Bossche meanwhile it
a "solar tax" (called "netvergoeding")
imposed on the owners of solar panels. But
large solar farms remain unaffected.
The solar tax only applies to the ordinary families
with a modest installation of solar panels
the own roof. The small owners pay fifteen times
more than the large solar parks.
To catch the tidal inlet of Zeebrugge 54 ultra-modern wind turbines the sea breeze of the English Channel. Here
the wind blows for everyone, but the gain is for the
shareholders. Because C-Power is not an institution of
public good but a private consortium. Bagger Baron
DEME calls the slice, along with the energy giants
EDF and RWE. Who demand returns.
And again, the consumer pays the bill. 54
windmills, euro him 108 million per year, calculates the energy regulator Creg. That's more than two

26

billion in twenty years. Because for every euro current
produces a wind farm, the government puts two
euro tax money. Gets a little wind farm
as soon a return on equity of 12%.
That subsidy bill threatens significantly to walk on. By 2018
seven wind farms to be operational,
together accounting for a capacity seven times greater than
C-Power.
Wind creates profit, and paid one hundred percent by the society, through the lucrative green energy subsidies But why should
We sponsoring wind winnings?
Why do we keep those wind farms or not
hands of society?

Three. Hazardous particulate matter. The mobility policy
a disaster for the fight against pollution and climate change.
Belgium and clean air, which is difficult. Our country was
already referred to the European Court due to
high concentrations of particulates and risking the same
for nitrogen dioxide.
By human activity come all kinds of harmful
substances into the atmosphere: sulfur dioxide, nitrogen (di) oxide, ammonia, ozone, carbon (di) oxide and methane. Also fine dust, tiny particles in our
lungs and invade our bloodstream.
This results in lung, heart and vascular diseases, for cancer and nervous-system problems. From a
MIRA report comes particulate matter forward as the most harmful environmental factor. In Flanders
these particles responsible for three-quarters of the
total health damage caused by environmental pollution.
"Sports in Antwerp is unhealthy," reads one of the
campaigns of the action group against the Breathless
Lange Wapper Bridge and the BAM route. In Belgium
cities, a quarter to half of the population
exposed to high concentrations of particulate matter. Also the
concentration of nitrogen dioxide in excess of the European
standard. Projects such as the widening of the Brussels ring are not such that reduce emissions.
A large part of the emissions of particulate matter and chemicals comes from the industry and the
energy production. It is needed that emissions too severe
reducing, with the health standards of the
World Health Organization standard.
Also, traffic and transport provide a lot of emissions,
but also the policy fails it.
Brussels is probably the hardest to reach in city
World: A motorist would average 85 hours there per
year sitting in traffic. The Flemish government has
trapped in the BAM-route to the Antwerp ring
but persists in anger.
Build more sections and more motorways attracts over time just more traffic
to, a solution to the files is not.
The government saved in various budget rounds strongly on the rail network. The punctuality of the NMBS
dropped to unprecedented depths, the Fyra was a deba-

climate

cle, the division between the management of infrastructure (Infrabel), and that of the rolling stock (NMBS)
hampers proper functioning. Cargo traffic at the
public railway companies declined in Europe
In recent years by 40 percent. 10 per cent was purified by the
Private rail accepted. The remaining 30 percent was transferred to ... the road.
Also in the line is saved.

Four. Nature conservation: a disappointing
balance.
Minister Joke Schauvliege had big plans for the
Recognizing large areas to VEN (Flemish Environmental Network) and "verwevingsgebied" with an appropriate management focused on conservation. The balance
disappointing. At the current rate we achieve it
objective of 125 000 ha VEN only towards 2074, while
the deadline set in ... 2015. And of the 150,000 against
2015 promised hectares verwevingsgebied is barely
4000 ha realized.
The "boswijzer" should monitor the forest area.
According to this boswijzer came since 2011 8000 ha
forest in Flanders. But that is then on only
the boswijzer itself: it also has trees on roundabouts and in
gardens along the forest. BOSplus, the only organization in
Flanders, which is committed to conservation, better forest
and more forest, writes that between 2009 and 2011 net
forest disappeared.
Minister Schauvliege also would be the "designated zone" forest mapping and guard for the hood. But
beyond the preparation of a plan of action
she did not. Meanwhile were valuable forests
as it cut Ferrarisbos in Wilrijk.

The vision of the PTB +
The climate is changing. After 200 years of industrialization are
so many greenhouse gases pumped into the atmosphere
of global warming. Sea levels are rising, storms
are more common. One side of the globe knows
more floods, more droughts the other side.
Belgium is an industrialized country responsibility for climate change. It is then
also up to us to as quickly as possible our emissions down
build, as much as possible to further warming
avoid.
According to the IPCC must industrialized countries
as Belgium by 2020 at least 30%, better still
45% fewer greenhouse gas emissions than in 1990.
Only then can we the warming up
2 ° C limit. By 2050 our emissions are 95%
lower than in 1990.

€ € € €
€ € € €
€ € €
€

The commitments contracted Belgium, there are far
below. Our governments continue to rely on individual
efforts and market mechanisms and bring those
no solution.
We do not believe in green taxation which people individually responsible.
Green taxes and expensive garbage bags are not efficient. Green taxation indeed assumes that citizens
individual will change their behavior because of
the expensive price. But if there is no good public transportation
is you must continue using the car. And if there is no
general public plan is for insulation, the Tenant
subsidized housing remain a lot of energy for heating. Green taxes are also
asocial, because everyone, rich or poor, pay the same amount and
so increases the social gap. Must go to the ecological and social. The green revolution will be social
or they will not be.
It is difficult to dramatically cut emissions if decisions are made about production and infrastructures by individual companies looking to profit. While energy savings in the long term for
the companies are profitable, they are often
yet not because shareholders return in the short
term wish. We therefore want the levers for a
green revolution lay in the hands of society.
To put an end to the depletion of the planet
Earth is need another economic household.
The transition from an economy based on fossil and
nuclear energy to an economy based on renewable energy at all levels and terrain
and persevere: electricity generation, transportation,
heating, CO2 emissions ... It will be a complex process that requires much research and investment.
This transition will only be possible if they were turning their backs
to market mechanisms.

Our society is a thorough makeover good
use. We have the technologies. The transition
is possible, and quick. Since the barrier is not. What we
need is a society where international
Coordination and planning for social standing,
not short-term profits of international companies.
Where basic needs such as gas and electricity are commonly held. Where we together
build a sustainable future, tailored
humans and the environment. What we are steering society
itself take control.
To achieve the goals of the IPCC is an
rigid climate planning need, with clear intermediate targets and a clear plan for equipment
energy production, storage and distribution. With third-party payment schemes for insulation and renewable energy,
or direct investment from the government.
We put priority on sustainable energy, a comfortable and well-developed public
transport and general isolation of all recent homes.

27

€ € € €
€ € € €
€ € €
€

climate

Energy
If we want to stop the global warming we have to bring our energy and
conversions on a large scale. The nuclear power plants must
close, as provided in the law on nuclear phase-out. We
must invest heavily in green heat
and sustainable power. Technologically it may be
perfect, especially if we work together on a European scale. But the possibilities are many domestically
greater than the paltry 7% green energy
from today. In a first stage, low-energy gas power plants will be required to overcome the lack of green
current catch, but according to the Planning Office
it technologically possible to complete by 2050
Switching to renewable energy.
There is a problem. That green revolution is only possible if we put the energy multinationals offside.
We must itself set the appropriate course for the future.
If we leave it to the headquarters of GDF
Suez and co it is nothing. The energy revolution that we
need, forces us to think far ahead, beyond the delusion of profit. We must as a society
again get a grip on our energy supply. We
like the levers of energy in their own
get hands.
We must dare to dream. We want a public
energy sector, in the hands of society. We want a socialization of power. Heating and lighting are utilities,
No commercial merchandise. We want green power
and heat under the democratic control of society. Energy is too important to leave to
the greed of private multinationals.
Instead of the chaos of the free market, we propose
the logic of a planned approach, targeted and
democratic. We as society itself can
decide which energy we want tomorrow: sustainable and democratic. We want to own a roadmap
draw for the green revolution. We start with
a ban on the import of coal power. We replace nuclear plants as soon as possible by public
green energy companies. Brand new gas plants
concluded today from profit considerations
are obliged to remain open, under penalty of nationalization. We need the gas plants as long as we
not all our electricity can generate sustainable.
Instead of wind farms, biomass plants
and solar farms to outsource to private multinational corporations we invest as government itself in public
energy companies, under democratic control,
green energy production and supply of cheap
the population.
To combat global warming, and
while giving everyone access to affordable
and sustainable heat supply, we have our
heating, which is today based mainly
Gas, replaced by green heat. We set
for district heating systems where possible to

28

to lay, in public hands. This is fed via a
Residual heat pipe network of companies, or heat
the surface directly to the families at home
accommodated. As we build a climate-friendly
heating, we save a lot of money on gas and
fuel oil and at the same time we improve the air quality
our cities.

Transport
Belgium is the hub of Europe, but go
serious cost associated with it. Transport is responsible for a significant portion of the greenhouse gases,
but also for NO2, particulate matter and noise. Files
worry every day for a big waste
of time and money. Action groups have that theme all
raised, the Lange Wapper bridge in Antwerp
the widening of the Brussels ring. The policy continues
Put emphasis on road traffic.
We see things differently: away from the individualisation,
collective solutions. Only so can we
mobility problem at the root address.
We want to get as much traffic on the road.
This will require common solutions,
instead of to individualize the problem.
The goods must be transferred whenever possible to transport by rail or along the waterways. One possibility for this is the "accompanied combined transport" (more on this in our proposals).
To also make the movement of the road
a turnaround in public transport. Although the
passenger numbers increase every year, there is still
less money for the railways. Those savings
must be reversed, we have more accurate
necessary investments. Public commuting for
many people not possible, not even ride buses
between Antwerp and its port. On evenings and
weekends connections are scarce.

The proposals of the PTB +
1. Power to the people. Energy into their own hands.
Energy is too important to be left to the free
market. In a green revolution, there is no place for
Electrabel & co. We want the levers of our future self get their hands on. We advocate the socialization of the energy sector. Instead of
GDF Suez, RWE, EDF and ENI we want a public
energy supply in the hands of society and
under democratic control. Only in this way we can replace the chaos of the free market by the
planned development of a sustainable energy system.

climate

2. Public utilities for green energy.

4. Against the air: a master plan for
the development of public transport. We must

We want the establishment of public energy companies. The government versluist now the tax money to the
energy giants. We want the government itself invests in renewable energy and low-cost green energy supplies to the population.

at developing a large development plan
public transport. Train, metro, tram and bus should
be more attractive than the car, especially in the cities.
Public transport is also much more regular drive and are more comfortable and cheaper. When Sweden
the ticket price halved, the number of passengers doubled. Free public transport tram in French
Aubagne caused a rise in the number of passengers by 170%.

Who is investing today in the renewable energy
tomorrow must have a broad vision. We advocate
a national plan for the future for green energy, and
Energy companies for green electricity at national
level. Democratic control is crucial. The
Board of Directors is not politically appointed, but
elected by consumers and environmental organizations and trade unions are represented. Burgers
have the right to speak and all board meetings are
public and are broadcast live on the Internet.
In addition, companies also town green
energy make a valuable contribution, by local
on a small scale to help build the energy system of tomorrow. We also call for a European
wind farm in the North Sea, in public hands
and under control of the society.
Public utilities are not utopian. More than
60 German cities have in recent years flow multinationals local swung the slab, shown the door and own city enterprises. In Munich
supplies a city business affordable green electricity
95 percent of the population. The German city businesses
Situated in the small that it can indeed different.

3. For the construction of district heating networks.
Networks heat for domestic heating, hot water,
greenhouse heating and, conversely, for cooling
a known and effective technology that also
Europe the way forward. That heat networks
are fed with waste heat from industry, waste incineration or electricity, but it can also
work with heat pumps electricity
from renewable sources.
To be profitable, central heating
of course, on a large scale and are common organized. Modern heat networks
covering tens of kilometers.
Hot water can also be easily extended perio
des be stored in well insulated tanks.
Then, it is also a form of storage of renewable
energy. A grateful solution for excessive peak production during sunny or windy weather.
Good examples also come from here and abroad. In Denmark, 62% of homes heated by heat networks in Poland, 50% in Sweden
42%. The Danish capital of Copenhagen (1.6 million
inhabitants) has in recent years almost completely switched over to district heating. More than 90% of the
households connected to it.

€ € € €
€ € € €
€ € €
€

To combat the pollution, we want to work
towards car-free city centers. We choose
resolutely for more space for the bike. City Kernen
are often a jungle where the bike is not by
is to come. We encourage cycling by separate
bike paths, "fietsostrades" and the installation of covered bike racks. Car-free city centers encourage walking and the use of bicycles and public
to transport.
Electric bikes are a valuable alternative means of transport.
Finally, we want not only to think about our means of transportation, but also the infrastructure.
Cancers city as the Antwerp ring should be quickly covered. We thus create new space, keep
We harmful emissions from the residential areas and dikes
we the noise in.

5. Transportation of goods over long distances: compulsory rail or boat.
We want to give priority to the transport of the
rail or the boat, since it is less harmful to
the environment. And so we strive for public investment there. Transportation of goods over long distances must
mandatory with containers along rail or waterways.
The road transport is today only
"Cheaper" because the community pays the cost
of road construction and road maintenance, and
environmental costs.
We can make this change if we do not market
longer make decisions about transportation policy.
"Accompanied combined transport" is a way of
freight that is already in several countries
applied. RoLa (Rolling Highway) in Austria and Germany, and the RA (Rolling Autobahn) in
Switzerland are based on this concept: trucks simply drive the train with retrofitting
and are transported by rail. The drivers
take place in sleep or zitwagons and driving from the
terminal continue with the truck.
In another, more ecological concept bring the
trucks containers to a railway point A.
containers at a railway point B again
recovered.
Studies show that CO2 emissions by rail
Are 80 to 93% lower than for road transport and off

29

€ € € €
€ € € €
€ € €
€

climate

impact of particulate matter 61 to 80% lower, with even lower emissions of NO2 (-96%), SO2 (-59%) and CO (-83%).

6. Insulation of all recent housing with government support.
In 7 out of 10 of the Flemish houses can still large
energy savings. Still,
The policy only bet on bonuses and tax exemptions for families that carry out insulation work.
Of course, which are particularly beneficial to those who
renovations can afford. For tenants
they are already completely useless. Instead of a public
funds to be transferred to private owners, we need a large-scale insulation plan, a
third-party payment. In addition, the government shoots the
renovation costs for money which is later reimbursed by the savings on the energy bill.
For the oldest buildings where insulation as well as
nothing yields in terms of energy savings, like
we use as much as possible other shapes for the
recovery of lost energy.

30

e
d
t
a
d
d
j
i
t
t
It becomes

l
a
n
O
i
t
a
Multin
Lake
n
e
g
n
i
t
s
a
bell
pay
Then the
w
you
O
r
v
s
t
phooey

31

taxes

GoLeft # 4: The wealth dare activate
The election survey by the WPB
Question: "Crisis. Who should pay the bill? "
Answer 46% of respondents "The multinationals and large
banks. They now pay little or no tax on their profits because
the government allows it (eg. notional interest). "
Several recent polls show that 80% of Belgians favor
the introduction of a wealth tax is.

Findings
A. Belgium is a tax haven for the wealthy,
a tax hell for the working people. That
is the result of a policy that was initiated in the
1980s, when the Belgian government had dragged into the neoliberal wave of the Reagans and Thatchers. That policy has since been deepened continuously,
even today. On the basis of the neoliberal
reforms in the 1980s was the idea of ​​"gradual overflow". The reasoning was that by
wealth to stimulate and tax gifts to the rich
give rise to wealth was gradually seeping into the lower strata of society.
It led to fiscal reforms with the highest
incomes paid less and less tax. Great
assets swelled and the state showed significant
income on his nose pass.
The result is that society gets less and less income for the strongest shoulders. The government gave
politics at any point in a different direction.

32

Part of the profits in national income constant
continued to increase (at the expense of the share of wages)
the taxation of these gains followed a reverse curve. She declined gradually from 48% to 45%
43%, 41%, 40% to 34% today. And that is the "official"
nominal rate. The real rate is still about twenty
points lower. The largest companies pay an average of just about 6% tax. And many large
companies pay no taxes.

In 2011 the government received 182 billion euro revenue:
-2
? 3 percent on personal income,
-2
? 2 percent through taxes on consumption,
-3
? 0 percent through social contributions on labor.
About three-quarters of government revenue is
fed by the employees.
Only 6 percent of revenue comes from corporate taxes, which is a historical record low. This government brought fundamentally not there
some change.

The tax treatment of coordination centers was issued in 1982. It came through proxies
the awful government Martens-Gol, as gifts to the
multinationals. The European Union condemned the
system. A liberal-socialist government has
replaced in 2005 by a monster that much
terrifying for the public finances:
notional interest. There is no doubt that this measure
yielded no new job in the private sector.
But represent the cost to the budget
tens of thousands of jobs in government.
Although the notional interest generally discredited - dare even the agents thereof
they can not defend openly - left the government-Di
Rupo they exist at all, and in spite of all
savings. She has a number only symbolic
restrictions on: she has the NID reduced to 3%, but the rate for the
bonds in ten years, which serves as the reference
notional interest is much lower today.

Two. For large multinationals rate remains
fall towards zero. The tax rate for the

Three. Please the rich hoard their money,
not to bother. The more the load on the enterprise

companies is an excellent barometer
this neoliberal fiscal policy. While from 1980 the number

ming profits declining, the faster profits rise.
On the other hand, it is clear that employees

taxes

with a job and people on benefits
life, bear the lion's share of the savings. What follows here is a concentration of wealth
in the hands of a handful of large fortunes ... where
Government will not collect tax on. Instead of
a real property tax, found the government-Di
Rupo one - especially poorly groomed - contribution from
4% of the income of more than
20,000. But who has worked only one year
(or rather did not work) and then again to be abolished
and be replaced by a withholding tax
25% for everybody, rich and less rich. They sit there
today to laugh in the salons of the employers' circles.

Four. Entities: the broadest shoulders
must wear less. Yes, in Belgium the big companies are very lightly loaded and large fortunes
not at all, while the working people of their
side are very heavily taxed. Even the progressivity
became the personal income tax
tackled. In Belgium, the taxes are calculated by income bracket. On the first drive of your
income, you pay nothing. Then climbs
tax rate up as you get into higher Drive
enters. In 1988 these tax brackets went from
10% to 68% for the highest incomes. A reasonable
wide range so. But in 25 years, that difference
tax rates have become increasingly smaller. You begin
to 25% and never rises above 50%. On a lower
income go so much faster pay taxes. And
a high income, you pay much less. That is, the
Tax reform Didier Reynders which has abolished the tax scales of 52.5% and 55% for the highest incomes. And PS / sp.a and Ecologists / Greens
voted for the tax reform.
To make the savings swallow, the regeringDi Rupo pulled withholding tax (the tax on
interest and dividends) to 25% and announced
while they also did repay the capital. But
introduce a 25% tax rate for everyone
the opposite of a progressive restoration of the
tax scales, especially when you know billionaire Albert
Frère and consorts all their assets in their holding
can concentrate without even having to pay a penny tax.
In addition, the government provides them with the crumbs
one hand of "capital" would have taken (and
then we go there just assume that it's really about big business would go), with the other hand back, through
measures to promote "competitiveness", the term by which employers exploit
the employees pay.

Five. Indirect taxation: increase over the
line (or almost). All taxes and duties
in our tax system only applies to a part of
personal income and inheritance rights a
sliding scale. Furthermore, there is nothing that still corresponds to the principle of the progressivity in that

tax justice ensures that a higher
income leads to a greater rate.
VAT, for example, proportional and affects everyone,
for the most part at the same rate of 21% (and
perhaps not even because the rich do not consume all their income and are therefore relatively less
subject to VAT). All taxes and charges on
a fixed amount are regressive rather than progressive. It is precisely these taxes on consumption that
Government increased directly or indirectly.
Some are proud that they have prevented
that a general increase in VAT was that there was only one tax rate for the cost of the notary, bailiff, the lawyer representing ...
a rate increase.
The federal and provincial politics have led
to an underfunding of municipalities. Thereby
which are obliged to raise the (unjust) taxes and charges.
The only bright spot: the reduction of VAT to 6%
electricity, under pressure from the petition with 220 000
signatures of the PTB +. With two critical
Notes: The measure is limited in time and is
not at the expense of the multinationals in the sector,
the risk that in a way or another, yet again the
make taxpayers pay.

Six. The tax deduction of one is not the
tax deductibility of the other. In the course of the years
Governments have all kinds of loopholes in the law
built-in. Large rear doors even, deductions
which multinationals can deduct their profits artificially in order to pay less taxes.
The research department of the PTB + published in late 2013
its latest peak in 1000 of the companies most
profit making in Belgium. These thousand enterprises
generated combined profit of a total of 50
billion, which they jointly 3.1 billion in taxes paid or a rate of barely
6.17%. Thanks to all kinds of tax cuts as the
not taxing capital gains on shares,
notional interests and the definitive taxed income,
those companies were not paying 13.8 billion euros in taxes. And so it goes every year.
Some people in the government say it is too
it is difficult to conclude which financial loopholes.
But that is a non-argument. As for other categories of the population, the government Di Rupo
the deductions harder. So you will less
deductions for childcare. For an average family that saves 84 euros per year.
Also, the deduction for pension savings is difficult.
For a family with two elderly makes annually
140 euro difference.
And finally also the deduction for roof insulation difficult. And that can go up to 301 euros per year.
This government has so did change deductions.
Only it's the wrong one.

33

taxes

Key figures
- Distribution of powers: the richest 1% of the
population holds just as much as the 60% least wealthy.
- Corporation: the top 1000 of the companies with the largest gains tax will pay 4 to 6%, depending on the year).
- A few of the tax and other gifts to
The capital:
1. Notional interest: 6.2 billion (2011)
2. Exemption gain on shares: 3.1 billion
(2010)
3. Definitive taxed income: 6.0 billion (2010)
4. The winning over business taxes by
Patrons: 2.3 billion (2011)
5. The winning over social contributions by the employers: 7.1 billion (2011)
- Distribution of state revenues (182 billion
euro in 2011):
1. Paid workers: personal
(23%) + social security contributions (30%) + taxes on consumption (22%) = 75%.
2. Non-tax revenue: 12%. Who paid? As
Government privatized, the private capital
richer and poorer workers.
3. Withholding and property tax and inheritance + registration fees: 8%. Pay employees
the largest part of these charges.
4. Business tax: 6%.
Thus, it is time to put everything in perspective. For it
involves a lot of money that the government miss annually
by its present fiscal policy.

The vision of the PTB +
While the impoverishment of a large part of the population
increases, so does the enrichment of the largest fortunes. Inequality is growing. Last year there were
5700 millionaires in our country, 8% more than the year before and that while the economy shrank by 0.3%. There is, in
this society really a group that is better from there.
That has already started thirty years ago. For 30 years, see
we have a double effect.
First, at the level of gross income, yet
even for the state collects taxes.
Here the share of the owners of capital went up incessantly to the detriment of those of the working people, the people on benefits, small
self-employed.

34

The government policy has facilitated this evolution
by measures of the relative share
Wages decreased: the austerity measures, the
laws on competitiveness, the index manipulations,
the activation of jobseekers, for legislation
more flexibility and substatuten, liberalization
and privatization of sectors that were privately owned with the loss of social gains and wage conditions and so on.
Then there is what the state has done with taxation.
Normally it would be better to tax the rich
divide. But successive governments
on the contrary, increasing fiscal and other gifts
given to the bosses and the main part
of the tax burden placed on the shoulders of the
working people. Who have already lost a lot
at the level of their gross income and the loss
even greater at the level of the available net income.
Moreover, the share of the pie for the working people also for 2008 is considerably lower
become, as they have raised the bulk of the efforts to repay
public debt. The financial crisis of 2008
all those painful social efforts reduced to nothing. The
state has indeed again indebted to to help those responsible for this crisis
shoot: the banks.
We gotta get out of this dead-end street. On this
two fronts, we must reverse the logic. On the one hand
increase the gross wages of employees and social benefits. On the other hand the basic tax
change so that it truly becomes an instrument for
fair taxation, instead of a tool
for redistribution ... at the service of the profits.
Our view on taxation is that the broadest shoulders
the heaviest burden to bear. This issue of
taxation is not only an ideological debate,
but also concrete and real. What we do not go looking at the nations, we have to look at the others.
If the government decides the tax system for businesses
alleviate, at the expense of workers, self-employed and the unemployed. As the largest 1000
profitable companies almost 14 billion euros
to get tax deductions, this means that the
costs of an aging population refuses to pay. Until 2030
it cost us less than 700 million euros per year
payable aging. That's a lot of money, and there
lots to do. Still, that figure may sometimes
are compared with the fiscal policy of the gift
government, for which annually cost us 20 times as much.
In short, we need to activate the wealth. That is the trend we are now undergoing thirty years
Invert: return the wealth to those who produce the workers. Social is urgent, but also

taxes

economically, it is necessary. Employees worry
for the consumer, not the already saturated multimillionaires. If we do get richer, we are
still far from the crisis.
We advocate for a very simple tax revolution:
we find that they, the multinationals and the millionaires,
also have the right to pay tax on their capital and their profits.
That is why we are campaigning for the abolition
notional interest and the millionaire's tax.
Millionaire tax affects only 88 000 families in our
country, but would generate annually up to 8 billion euros.
We think it is a missed opportunity that the government there
no award is made.

7. Reduce the share of indirect taxes, beginning with a reduction in VAT on energy (6% instead of 21%).
8. The tax brackets for personal income revise the progressiveness of the
scales to increase significantly, with lower rates for low and medium incomes.

The proposals of the PTB +
1. Elimination of notional interest, the abolition of the exemption of capital gains on shares. Yield = 2 billion.
2. Introduction of a millionaire tax (on the powers above 1.5 million euros). A tax of 1% on the
great fortunes of more than a million, 2%
on the fortunes of more than 2 million and 3%
the fortunes above 3 million. This millionaire's tax refers only to a small portion of the population,
it affects only the richest 3%. Yield = 8 billion
euro.
3. To enter a special tax on profits
the banks. Yield = 1 billion
4. The major tax fraud fight with some real action. Yield = at least 3 billion
euro. Measures:
- Effectively lifting of banking secrecy,
- Establish a power cadastre,
- Increase (instead of reducing) the number of
employees in the Finance Ministry and the courts to fight against the financial
crime,
- Put an end to the repeated measures
for tax amnesty.
5. afkoopwet abolish where the big fraudsters
benefit.
6. Merge all income, earned income, and
financial and real estate income and subject it to progressive tax scales.

35

36

Stgrraotfe

the
s
r
€
l
€
p
Valss
e
n
i
e
l
k
e
not d

s
l
e
g
O
speelv
Stop

GAS

37

Stop

GAS

justice

GoLeft # 5: Class Justice? No thanks
The election survey by the WPB
8% puts justice in his personal top three issues that we must address first.

Findings
A. Justice is going nearer to the richest
standing and has even further away from the
commoner.
"Citizens are too often faced with a
judiciary that he does not understand and that seems unattainable. It is necessary the court with all
to reconcile citizens. "That we could read in the
government statement of the Di Rupo government. There would be
work made of an accessible, fast
justice.
The government has indeed done its work
to reconcile the dish with a portion of its citizens: namely, the big fraudsters. She offers them a
amicable settlement (ransom) to.
But at the same time for ordinary people access to justice have gone down sharply.
Justice becomes more expensive and the case is further away
of citizens.
Meanwhile, citizens are treated to GAS fines,
now also for young people aged 14 and over.
Velvet gloves for the big fraudsters, boxing gloves against the common people, which is the government balance in the field of justice.

Two. The afkoopwet, the law and for the big fraudsters.
In 2011 changed the Leterme government, which as a
caretaker government was the afkoopwet. Since then, major fiscal and financial fraudsters can make their
surrender process. They have a lot of money over to
to ensure that there is no process. Minister Turtelboom
expanded the possibility of buying out an amicable agreement in May 2012 still out via a circular. The Prosecutor's Office (the executive) decides whether a
case may be bought off. The judge (judicial
power) can only check if the formal rules
were respected. The prosecution, which as a body of
the executive branch more to the interests of the
companies think will rather easily an amicable settlement proposals or comment on a proposal

38

of such company. Large companies pay a lot of money
lawyers and advisers in negotiations
the fines to get down. Notable examples include: Dominiek De Clerck, Massive, AXA in the
Sabena process, Omega Diamond, the wealthy Didier
Dewitte, the family De Wilde, Chodiev, Bois Sauvage.
The result is clear: the new law on the amicable settlement can be used in criminal cases by large
fraudsters to buy off their impunity. No
trial, no conviction and no criminal record. They escape paying their penalty by a fraction of
what they would normally pay in back taxes and fines. Thanks to afkoopwet could
Omega Diamonds so, through a deal with the court, all
prosecution surrenders. Research had shown
Omega Diamonds more than 2 billion euro profit
from Angola and Congo kept hidden from the tax authorities via
fraud rings in Geneva and Dubai. Omega Diamonds
comes from its afkoopwet 160 million to the
from tax. None of the suspects would be prosecuted
be due to financial fraud.
The result is that anyone who steals an apple from the shop window
was arrested while stealing billions who gets an invitation to have a cup of coffee
the Attorney General to among civilized people
To argue about the amount he must pay
To avoid a criminal record.
As white-collar criminals get a push in the
back: to commit fraud and if you get caught, we reach an amicable settlement and therefore use a part of
the money you earned.
The President of the Flemish League of Human Rights
spoke of "a mockery of the principle of equality." And further: "Is not it ironic that the Minister of
Justice has already stated that the money from the settlements can be used for the construction of new
prisons? The prisons where the poor
Citizens end up. "

Stop

GAS

justice

The government defends the law on the amicable settlement, arguing that the big fraudsters else
escape such a process and that it is now at least recover money. That's the world upside down:
to make, rather than a priority of the prosecution
of major fraud and where money and resources in stabbing, one is committed there that going to accept it. To allow small
shrimp prosecute be no expense
spared.

Three. GAS: a sheriff-justice.
The new Law on Administrative Municipal
Penalties (GAS fines) was approved in May 2013.
Municipalities decide on their municipal regulations to
discretion and arbitrariness which behaviors
("Nuisance") they will be fined. Anyone who commits such an offense, must be accountable and fined
pay to the municipality. The Di Rupo government has
inefficient, absurd and arbitrary system with the
new law extended to children aged 14 and
amount of fines increased.
In the spring of 2013 the Flemish Youth Council gathered 213 civil society organizations from the three
Regions of the country, accounting for millions of members.
She asked with insistence to the members of the Chamber
not to approve the bill around the new law on GASboetes. With that powerful signal
the united society hoped the MPs move to dialogue and to bring to reason. Unfortunately, on May 30th, 2013 was the verdict.
The government parties all voted for stricter legislation with the support of the N-VA. A burly
shift to more misunderstanding and toward less tolerance.
Because "nuisance" is very broad course. Who with
snowballs and throw confetti on the wrong day
a garbage bag outside move, or eat on a bun
public road, risking a fine. These absurdities
No excesses, they're in the GAS system ingrained.
It is a "sheriff-justice," wrote the French League
Human Rights: local authorities are free to decide what they may or may not come true in terms of behavior. What "disturbing" is or what "public disorder", this will depend
of completely arbitrary judgments and criteria. On this
arbitrariness is no brake. We risk situations
in certain US regions where the sheriff on
own and according to his mood heavy metal,
reggae, or may prohibit the sale of condoms.
Who wants to dispute a fine GAS, must itself to the
Police courthouse steps above and bear the cost.
Even find the top prosecutors of the country
GAS-law, a breach of the separation of powers
and applies to young people more than questionable.
Why constantly want to regulate and prohibit all
and admonishing finger upward stabbing, even for
things that absolutely do not cause nuisance? Why
such a lack of tolerance? Why make
but always opt to criminalize?

And then this happens: an art for young people
Antwerp was a GAS penalty because the flyers ...
handed out against the absurdity and arbitrariness of GASboetes.
GAS fines are handed out to all kinds of critical
voices to silence. 145 people in
October 2012 protesting against the "Banquet
the rich "in Brussels, were threatened with a GASboete. Protesters against Monsanto in the summer
of 2013 in Antwerp too. Therefore the move
unions are against this law: they are afraid that the
GAS penalties are used against strikes and pickets
against actions of employees.
In addition, GAS fines are too antisocial. Genteel
circles should not fear a GAS-fine,
"Loitering" in popular neighborhoods so. Impose fines
solves the problems in the neighborhoods do not. The intention is
to bully the people in line. Nobody asks yet
Asked why the garbage is already on the street or
why young people strolling in the street and stupidity
play. They want people in line do run, do not
by solving problems, but by punishing.
Thus it is that a young woman at a cherry
the ground spits in the Rue Neuve, is fined, while Maurice Lippens, with Fortis the country almost
let go bankrupt, leaving them untouched.
Behind the GAS rage lurks a conservative ideology that everything is considered antisocial behavior
place in a criminal atmosphere. Previously deployed
social services: youth, accessible sport
and culture, guidance on school, neighborhood services such as
post offices ... They made for the supervision. Prevention was the starting point.
Mediation services be abolished today,
judicial assistants layoffs, reduced social fabric. The emphasis has shifted from prevention to
repression. You can see that every day: city guards are
not used to old people on the tram or bus
to help, but to penalize young people; men
Garbage service be fired and then deployed
as GAS officials to lurk around
someone to catch. The underlying problems
remain unresolved. Social and collective problems
questions social and collective solutions.
Never a penalty? When investing in social and collective solutions to some people is pointless, can
a fine may be imposed. But then a penalty by
a court that respects the rights of defense, and not by a municipality that judge and party.

Four. Access to justice is more expensive
become
Article 23 of the Belgian Constitution guarantees
right to legal assistance. The government has taken measures which undermine this fundamental right:
- In July 2013 the government decided to submit the attorneys' fees to a tax, and that the
rate of 21%. You will reduce the fees and expenses

39

Stop

GAS

justice

lawyers for individuals of course 21%
up. (Businesses can deduct VAT.)
That's a big step towards a two-speed justice. From now on the advice of a lawyer
just as responsible as caviar or a handbag Delvaux.
Were the cost of the bailiff and the notary
the end of 2012 already 21% up through the introduction
VAT.
- The government also planned court fees - it
is your contribution to the costs of the lawsuit you
tightens - increase. For now goes that plan yet
not trough.
- In Belgium, only those with very low
Income appeal to a free lawyer,
a pro-Deoadvocaat which is then paid by
a government fund. The income limits for that
are so low that anyone with a regular job
excluded. But it is quite minister Turtelboom
limited system anyway. Wants the plan Turtelboom
Entering a "co-payment" if you go to court
step, you will have a portion of the costs themselves
pay. That would mean the end of the free
legal in Belgium.
The plan also would reverse the procedure: you will have access to legal assistance, you will first
all evidence must submit sure you answer the criteria. Now the pro-stan- dard leaves of a (legal) presumption: one takes it
and has confidence in the people. If the plan
the minister comes through, also did. With
the risk that some do not go to the
court can step because they do not succeed
to prove that they meet the criteria.
By the resistance of social organizations was
Plan Turtelboom temporarily stopped (until after the election).
To sum up: from January 1, 2014 Justice of the cost increases by 21%. If the other plans come through, go
we go to a price increase for Justice of 30 to 40%.

Five. A law which is further away from the
people, governed by a neoliberal orientation.
In July 2013, the government has also decided the legal landscape, which is the division of the courts
over the territory, to "redesign". The number of
judicial districts is reduced
from 27 to 12. The reconfiguration will mobility
increase judges, creating a single structure
for the management of courts and (eventually) the
budgets and staff of justice decentralize. According to Minister Turtelboom is that the management and
improve efficiency. Then one can see the court
catching up arrears, improve service and
bring justice closer to the people.
But centralizing as provided in the plan
Turtelboom will sooner or later lead to your
soon must travel 20 km to the court
appear. To solve cases related

40

with family, petty crime or leases
people need closer to home can turn. If not
Government installs an additional lens barrier. Instead of a case-law close to people
the courts are geographically concentrated
and removed in this way of the people.
In the name of rationalization and professionalization
The courts have also imposed a number of new management rules, only the number
Casework that counts is at the expense of quality. Where that is good for? It is pure austerity. The danger is that an investigating judge in
the future with his corps commander will have to go begging to budgets for research. Threaten so
long and difficult investigations such as those ending up in organized major fraud in the bottom drawer.
Such justice policy has a neo-liberal orientation: the
allows "users" pay for the judiciary according to the
"Laws of the market" and it allows the law, which
nevertheless should be at the service of the population,
operate as a private company. On December 13, 2013
the staff explained to justice on strike in protest
against the understaffing and the neo-liberal evolution.

The vision of the PTB +
Since the establishment of justice Belgium has a law with two speeds: duration, incapable
to protect the interests of ordinary citizens, but
always ready to defend those of the establishment.
Justice is also generally an ivory tower,
world apart which is not accessible to ordinary
citizen.
This has led to a distinct class justice
as the Belgians feel it too. Moreover, the operation of the legal machine is very inefficient.
The Di Rupo government has done nothing to solve the problems, on the contrary.
It is high time for a progressive reform
justice. Links should it bend and break the monopoly of the right in this area. Left a must
alternative way of proposals for function
what we know today.
That alternative has four pillars:
- An inexpensive judgment where everyone terechtkan, rather than the elitist judiciary that is increasingly costly;
- A justice that focuses on make up and restore instead of repression that often proved
has to be ineffective;

Stop

GAS

justice

- A justice closer to the people in the place of the
Ivory tower;
- A participatory justice which citizens directly
engages in the operation of the court, as an alternative
for the current technocratisation, the so-called
"Professionalization".
That democratic reform is possible and necessary. Of course, a company like ours that puts
limits, just like other rights: the right to
work, social security, a healthy environment and so on. Now the primacy of the rights of multinationals and banks goes to do with the people what they want.
As long as this has not been corrected and the law
remains fundamentally unjust, it will be legal
apparatus, whose role is to apply the law, self-
remain fundamentally unjust.
But we are absolutely not condemned to the current
situation simply too passively. A reform
Inspired by the four pillars above will,
lead to a fairer justice which will also be more efficient at the same time.

The proposals of the PTB +
1. A prosecutor who dares to prosecute major frauds, there is a priority and the resources
gets in. We demand the immediate abolition
afkoopwet of the major tax and financial fraud. We want the prosecution of major fiscal and
financial fraudsters priority.

2. Abolition of the GAS Act. More resources
men, and young people in particular, to relax, to develop short, to be young
Investing in collective and social services to
problems at the root tackle.
Problems between citizens must wherever possible
are mutually dissolved, and through the intermediary of
people and organizations in the neighborhoods, until last
authority by a court close to the people
state and which they can participate too.

- Simplification of procedures, obligation
to the use of simple language, replacing
notification by registered letter, replacement
of the office of bailiff by public
service that no excessive and unnecessary costs specific to the public.
- Encouraging all forms of primary assistance and
solutions without the intervention of the judiciary.

4. A prosecutor who is near, a "neighborhood justice".
Primary Courts and build peace cuisine
instead of the current intensive centralization.
Although the action of some cantonal courts must
they also need to be improved and more resources
get to accomplish their missions, they are in
the line closest to the population.
5. A participatory justice, a justice that
citizen involvement. In the labor courts is already next to a professional judge
right through the trade unions and employers' organizations.
We stand for the generalization of such
assessors (from youth organizations, neighborhoods, tenants,
women and migrant organizations ...) in other courts. These assessors can take to ensure that
takes into account a person's social situation
instead of using only the legal rule that a
efficient and practical solution of the dispute
realized and that the lawsuit in an intelligible
proceeds language.

6. A restorative rather than punitive
justice when it comes to neighborhood crime. Thereby
the focus is on repairing the damage (as often
in the case of theft or assault and battery), and
not only on the punishment. Such a recovery-oriented approach
may imply the payment of a sum of money, but also
an alternative measure. This can cause
the victim feels that there is listened to him,
the damage incurred is recovered and the perpetrator -
possibly in the long term - be reintegrated into society. Involvement of citizens in the judiciary is
essential to operate the system properly.
This recovery-oriented system for neighborhood crime
the actors of the police and justice may (attorneys,
investigating magistrates ...) concentrate their efforts
the major tax and financial scams and crimes that affect society as a whole.

3. A justice that is accessible.
- Eliminate all costs and other barriers.
- Abolish VAT on lawyers, withdrawing
The proposal to double the court fees.
- Higher income limits to qualify for
a pro-Deoadvocaat. Refinancing of the proDeosysteem.
- Remove the legal assistance so that they can be a part of social security in the future
be, and everyone has access to justice
without it can cost a fortune.

41 pensions
Golf # 6: pensions: the elders award
we rest, young people at work
The election survey by the WPB
14% of respondents put the pensions in the top three priority
to address problems. When the topic of poverty, 23% think that "
pensions of our elders "have to go up.
In terms of work is 43% that instead of retirement
increase, the elders should have the right to replacement by a younger.
Findings
A. Increasing poverty among pensioners.
More than one in five older people (22%) have to live with
a pension below the poverty line. That's in the
Report of the Study Committee on Ageing
of July 2013. It is a disgrace for a wealthy country
as Belgium. According to a study by the Inter-university
Consortium Ageing in Flanders and Europe
Belgium the lowest pensions of old Europe in
Compared to wages. An average pension
amounts to us but well-half of an average
income. In our neighboring countries, two thirds or four-fifths.
The statutory pension of a Belgian employee
is compared with that of workers in the Netherlands,
France and Germany who have worked equally long
and as much earned the lowest. The low pension
has nothing to do with work longer or shorter,
but with our Belgian pension system itself. Statutory pensions for employed persons
are much too low. Who has worked 45 years, gets a
pension equal to 60% of the average income.
Who due to illness or involuntarily terminate his or
her career got a chance to work 45 years,
nearly automatically receive a pension below the poverty line. (The poverty line is 60% of the medial income.) In many other countries the pension
42
calculated on the basis of the last years of the career. That
provides a definition for better pensions.
The Di Rupo government is not worried by the low statutory pension. The pension policy of the government
coloring neatly within the European policies. Which
we can summarize as follows:
1. work longer,
2. reduce public legal pensions and transform it into a minimum protection against poverty,
3. promotion of private pension savings.
In its policy for the future, the government wants to continue pension policy.
Two. All two to five years longer works.
The first major measure of the Di Rupo government
was the raising of the retirement age. The government
increase the early retirement age in general
system from 58 to 60 years and the early retirement age from 60 to 62 years. Through these measures,
almost everyone will need at least two more years
work.
A large group of people will even up to five years longer
should work. The government raised after all
the career condition for early retirement or pensions
to take early retirement. This condition
she has raised for the early retirement of 35
to 40 years (for men) and from 28 to 40 years (for
women). And for early retirement from 35 to
40 years for employed persons and of 5
to 40 years for civil servants.
This increase, all officers, employees and self-employed working shorter
the labor market, required to work longer,
where appropriate after the age of 62 years. This
measure affects primarily women, of whom
Today, only one in three in a career of 40
hit year. Many women will in the future so
and five years have to work longer. That counts also for
youngsters. Those 25 years begins to work or whom
work stoppage takes that is not treated,
will have to work five years longer.
The duty to work longer through the reduction of duty
early retirement and early retirement is a very
unequal and unjust measure. The difference
in life expectancy between the highest and lowest
socio-economic groups in society is very big. It still exceeds 7.5
years for men and six years for women.
Where these differences tended to shrink
the first four decades after World War II,
take them now again.
The life expectancy as such, also says nothing yet
about the quality of the years lived. Much more
compared to regular life expectancy, healthy life expectancy is determined by socio-economic group to which you belong. In 2004 the lag
healthy life expectancy for a 25-year-old man
which higher education who, at 71 years. For a
man who have finished secondary school, which was lying on
66 years. For a man who lower secondary education
has followed, that was 64 years. For a man bearing
education followed was that 61 years and for men who have not followed just education, it was
52 years. For women the figures were respectively
at 72 years, 66 years, 67 years, 61 years and 53 years. The difference in healthy life expectancy between the highest
and the lowest socio-economic groups in society, thus exceeds 18 years for both
men and women.
Three. Reduction of the statutory pension
its transformation into a minimum protection
against extreme poverty.
The pension reform of the Di Rupo government withdrew
not only the statutory retirement age up, they
also built off the legal pensions. In the protest movement that followed the announcement of the pension reform in 2011-2012, many asked then
also: "Why work longer for lower pensions?"
The government reduced the from the state pension
officials by calculating the averages
salary of the last 10 instead of the last five years.
Depending on the situation of the official during
his final career years, the state pension can
thus be up to 12% lower. An average civil service pension is 2200 euros per month. A
12% reduction is equivalent to 264 euro per month.
The government bought some equivalent periods
in the calculation of the statutory pension for employees was reduced (time credits after one year) and reduced the
statutory pension during these periods (long unemployment and early retirement). Depending on the
situation of the person concerned makes for a reduction in
the state pensions of up to 125 euro
per month.
At the end of the legislature, the government decided
quick lowering the retirement bonus. This bonus
increases the statutory pension for employees
after age 62 or after a career of 44
remain active calendar years. The retirement bonus was
introduced along with the Generation Pact in 2005. He
served to soften the bitter pill of the degradation of the early retirement. For someone who remained active
until the age of 65, the pension bonus provided
an additional pension of 179 euros gross per month.
But from January 1, 2014 the pension bonus was revised. The new bonus for someone who delivers active
continues to 65 years the maximum amount of 83 euro
gross per month. That's almost 100 euros per month less.
In addition, the Di Rupo government continued the policy
Governments-Leterme I and II further with respect to the
revaluation of some very low pensions.
This is an increase in minimum pensions, minimum right per career year, holiday pay
and oldest pensions of employed persons. The increases amount to one and a half, two or three
percent annually. That makes for a slight increase
these pensions.
However, together with the above measures
it is primarily for the transformation of the legal
pensions as full replacement of income from public pensions as a minimum
protection against poverty. Is this transformation
coupled with the promotion of the private supplementary
and individual pensions.
Four. The supplementary and individual pensions:
highly flammable material.
By the reduction of the statutory pensions see the
people are naturally obliged to save in private
retirement savings. The individual pension savings and supplementary pensions are also in
the elevator. The Verhofstadt government made in the beginning of
2000s supplementary pensions more attractive
for employers: they lowered the social contribution
from 35 to 8.8% on wages paid out under
the form of a supplementary pension.
But the individual supplementary pensions
very uneven. Not everyone has the means
to engage in individual pension savings. Also not
43 pensions
justice
all employees receive supplementary pension.
Top managers on the other hand, have an additional
pension up to a hundred times higher than that of
ordinary workers.
The individual and supplementary pensions are
not without risk. In the Netherlands, the Valhalla of the
supplementary pensions, supplementary pension funds have been hit hard by the crisis. On April 1, 2013
54 pension funds are pension cuts
made up to 10%. The supplementary pension
for younger workers is expected in the Netherlands so strong that they come down 20 to 30% less
supplementary pension will draw than the current
60+. In Belgium there were blows. Through the
bankruptcy of the insurer group APRA Life
many employees their accrued additional
pension lost.
The vision of the PTB +
The famous anthropologist Levi-Strauss said you
human value of a society can be read at
the way in which it treats its elderly. Belgium
scores than not high.
The each-for-himself approach to pensions.
Life expectancy increases, people live, on average
longer. And it is true that the baby boomer generation
reached retirement age. Social security will
growing costs of pensions and health care
must guarantee. The question is: how do we deal with
to?
The answer to this question is two opposing
directions. Either generating resources and invest
the stock market, either: departing from the right to a good
state pension for all. The pension debate also reflects a wider social debate. The "every man takes care of himself" or stimulate the
organize solidarity? A society of competition, dividend and profit-hunting? Or a society on a human scale?
The liberals of this world can safely think
that "everything for profit, and profit for all" the spindle
around which the whole world should turn. They have to
Just do not pretend that this is the "only" way to a
to organize society. They say that the social organization of the society must change
because of the aging and they are talking about
career extension and supplementary pensions. The
large European industrial organizations, the green and
White Papers of the European Commission, liberal think tanks in all shapes and sizes, political parties
44
all kinds of color, all they ask if this vision
only one possible. Unwavering says firmly closed debate. Debate closed? With such unity thinking there
not even a debate.
Liberals see everything of this world through the glasses
the cost, revenue, competitive advantage and profits. In this vision, pensions course
pure ballast, money that is paid to people who
not productive. Pay pension, that does not bring
on, they reason. It is better that money in the markets
spend and invest in the economy. Therefore
they want to keep the state pension pillar layer, just
above the poverty line. So people urged
themselves to join a pension scheme. That money goes
through pension funds into the stock market.
It is also much more useful - on this view - older
to keep people in work. This saves the community money, and besides, all those additional
forces on the labor market to ensure that the pressure
remains in the boiler. Then there is a lot of competition among
wage earners who are looking for work and that means
wages low. The ultra-liberal school of Chicago,
who for years insisted that the invisible hand of the
market solves everything, put it this way: "The natural
rate of unemployment prevents wages too bright
rise. "A cynical view of society that make it one
organic law which elevates masses of people in unemployment to enforced idleness are condemned, and
who maintains that it would make economic Darwinism
ensure that those who do have work, not much
deserve.
Those "Chicago Boys" have in the seventies
last century, invented the three-pillar system of pensions. The statutory pension pillar for
these ultra-liberals a kind of public succor to
to ensure that the elderly do not die of hunger
and gloom. The second pillar is a private pier on the
level of companies and sectors, and the third pillar
those of the privépensioensparen.
The statutory pension, the first pillar, excavation and
low hold this view has two advantages. How
greater the concern that you will not get by your legal pints, the more people pushed
but still be yourself join a pension scheme,
and the more the companies to their second pillar
removal. The policy has two private piers encouraged for years with large tax rebates. A
growing share of the pension funds is therefore
as an investment fund managed by private capital. And the
perception that the statutory pension is something for poor souls, gaining more and more field. Becomes so forget
it is a basic right is where you years of part
your wages have been paid for. And so it is faster
than we would like the proud replace social security
through a policy of poverty reduction and alms. The trend is that everybody cedes to pension funds, banking and insurance companies, which attract them to the fair. pensions
The vision of solidarity pensions.
But there is also a vision of the pensions that departs
the human scale. If society is changing and
there are new needs present themselves, we must creatively
looking for funds to finance them. That people
thirty or forty years have contributed to the prosperity of society, in all of their health
pension can enjoy is in the interest of us all. And who throughout his life much of his salary
to have paid, has the right to a decent state pension and should not even go for that
Bijsparen through risky pension funds. That is a matter
of dignified aging.
It is the first condition the right to a decent pension at an age when you're not quite "used up". And yes, it is possible
livable pension build that people do not
obliged to work longer and take additional private pensions. But we first need some
Dispelling myths.
Ageing is not a tsunami, but socially portable.
The economic impact of aging is much more limited than is often thought. For this impact to
measure, refer studies by the European Commission,
the OECD, the World Bank and the Study
Ageing to "demographic dependency ratio". That's the number of retirees per active number. This ratio would evolve in Belgium of less than 4 actives per retiree today to
slightly more than two active persons per retiree in 2060.
But the reasoning is wrong. Not only over-65s live on the wealth generated by
Workers. When we take into account all
inactive (those over 65, children under 15
year, the unemployed and the "voluntary non-workers") than
are there today for each active 1.38 inactive in
Belgium. This ratio - "economic dependency ratio" - rises to 1.45 in 2030 and 1.52 in 2060. That is a
increase of 5% by 2030 and by 10% by 2060 or
an average increase of 0.21% per year by 2060.
These are not alarming.
Because in addition to this increase is the rise in labor productivity, which is generally considered
the foundation and measure of economic growth
long-term. A rise of 1.5% annually doubles in labor after 47 years. According to the
OECD forecasts remain labor
in Belgium rose by 1.6% annually. Facing the increased "burden" of the aging population by 2060 by 10%
is thus an increase in labor productivity
100%.
In the figures of the Study Committee on Ageing not only the rising expenses
pensions and healthcare bill
spent, but also the declining expenditure on unemployment, child benefit and work accidents. Taking into account the whole picture on Ageing
a total cost entail from 3.3% of
national income by 2030 and 5.4% by 2060.
That is an increase of 0.19% per year by 2030 -
less than 700 million euros per year - or 0.11% against
2060. Thus no tsunami, but a slowly rising tide. In total pensions would in
2060 14.7% of the national income amounts. 14.7%
of national income to 32.2% of the population. Is that so exaggerated? Of course not.
Public pensions are affordable.
But why so much fuss about aging?
Why so much propaganda about the "longer life = more work" to prime? That is all
with declining revenue for pensions.
The income to pay the statutory pensions
mainly from three sources:
- The employer and employee contributions to the
social Security,
- Subsidies from the state,
- The alternative financing (mainly VAT
income).
The employer and employee contributions - sometimes
Called "indirect wages" - forms since the creation of social security the most important source
of income. But they are greatly over time
decreased. That is due to the decline in the share
the direct and indirect wages in the national
income.
The direct wages (ie gross wages including bonuses, fringe benefits, compensation
and employer contributions to the supplementary pension,
but excluding employer social security) since the early 1980s
as a share of national income declined 5
percentage points. Faced with this decline is an increase
the share of profits, dividends and other
income from capital.
Not only direct pay, but also the indirect
wages (social contributions) fell. That has to
with the introduction of job and wage forms
where little or no contributions are paid: supplementary pensions, company cars, laptops, mobile phones,
non-recurring results-related benefits, all
alleged expenses ... The social contributions
workers since 1980 with 4.5 percentage points of national income declined nearly
as much as the increase in the cost of aging.
This decrease in social security contributions was offset by an increase in funding of the
social security by the government. According to the FPS
Social Security is one of the main developments in the social security system of the last decade. But the poor state of public finances (because saving the banks and political choices in tax policy) put that mechanism
under pressure. Saving is the motto of the government,
with the hot breath of the European Union in the neck.
Therefore, any additional costs for pensions,
45 pensions
justice
however limited, out of the question. Hence the quest
for alternative solutions.
One solution is: people work longer. This means they can then move to retirement
and they also die slightly earlier. That is, cynically,
double profit for the pension fund. Also, the preventing
measure the number of unemployed would strongly decrease,
what is "good" for the pressure on wages.
A second solution is to: encourage people
himself to save for their own retirement.
To reverse this trend, it is crucial the gross wages (direct and indirect wage) to revalue.
The wage freeze and attacks on the index should
stop. There should be no new losses
come from social security contributions. Thus, the band
clearly between the struggle for decent wages and
for decent pensions.
More than 600,000 unemployed, why work longer?
The government let us work longer without a
analysis to the employment opportunities for older workers. Those chances are slim, given the large surplus
labor in the labor market. In Brussels, 48 ​​people competing for one job in Flanders
there are 10 for one job. Average for our country: 17
unemployed for one job. In October 2013 there were
35 500 vacancies for a total of 595 000 job seekers. The government required us to work longer,
but for the employers - both in private and in
government services - are exempt from any obligation to keep even older people at work longer.
The Study Centre Work and Social Economy of the KU
Leuven calculated that the increase in the statutory
retirement most likely an increase in
the number of unemployed will entail. Lake
unemployed: it is obviously not a solution for the funding of public pensions. On the contrary,
it puts pressure on wages, which in turn negatively
effect on the extent of the social contributions
statutory pensions must be financed.
A study by the Special Committee for
Pensions of Local Authorities indicates that the
impact of two years longer work on the financing of public pensions is very limited. The
European Commission, therefore, does not speak of two
year, but four or five years longer (up to 69 or
70 years). For Belgium, the Commission recommends that even the
automatic linking of the retirement age
average life expectancy at.
Increase the statutory retirement age by four or five years undermines the democratization of the parent
be. Here's why:
A 65-year-old man had in 1841 - the earliest figures
that we have for Belgium - an average life expectancy of 11 years. A 65-year-old man
has an average life expectancy of today
17 years. That's only six more years.
46
A 85-year-old man had a life expectancy in 1841
of on average 3.9 years. Today the life expectancy has risen to even 5.3 years. That is only 1.4
year more over a period of 175 years.
That everyone lives longer, is therefore incorrect. However, it is precisely
that more people have the chance to grow old.
Aging is more democratic in other words. But important differences remain.
The difference in life expectancy between the highest and
the lowest socio-economic groups in society is still 7.5 years for men and 6 years
for woman. For healthy life
Amounts vary even 18 years. And these differences are on the rise, because the life expectancy for
the lowest socio-economic groups and not rising
in certain countries, such as Germany and Russia, even
decreases. A linear increase in retirement age
therefore undermines the democratization of the parent
be and sends us back many years in time.
The government requires the elderly to work longer,
bars for the young people the road to the labor market.
A smear campaign "a generation clash", or solidarity between generations?
Besides the longer working and the reduction of public pensions, the third direction of the European and Belgian pension policy: the promotion of
additional and individual pension savings.
That saves everyone for his own retirement. That
is presented as a matter of intergenerational
solidarity. The young people would no longer have to
to pay for the pensions of the elderly. That presentation is not correct.
There is no Chinese wall between the income of
young and old. Older people will sooner in financial distress
or have to resort to their children. The question
therefore, is not how the pension relieve the younger generation, but how a society
a whole must organize pension
(for young and old).
The "PAYG" of public pensions
means that the pensions of the inactive part
of the population are paid directly by the contributions of the active part. That PAYG is beneficial
and creates more solidarity between generations.
But the system of complementary and individual retirement savings is a matter of long-term financial transactions, each for himself. The build-up
it extends over a period of 35 to 45 years
and the benefit phase over a period of 20 to 30
years. In the long term, the efficiency of non-risky financial products on capital not
higher than the growth of national income, especially
Not when you have also taken into account the administrative costs of private pension providers.
Billions of euro pension funds invest in financial
market, with its bubbles and crises, is also full of risks. pensions
Jobs torch.
If you can provide good jobs for young people, as
older people can pass on their experience
to younger colleagues, as more early retirees
are replaced by young people, the percentage of workers remains exactly the same. With that difference
that gives you opportunities to a new generation and
while the older generation the opportunity healthily
and do enjoy the years after the career.
To the question: "What guarantee work for all?"
crossed 43% of those polled in the election survey to the PTB: "Replace older workers, young people, instead of the retirement age to
extend ". We want the issue of redistribution
of recreating negotiable available work. We continue to produce more wealth with increasingly
fewer workers. We must work available than
also distribute better, while maintaining the purchasing power.
In the first place by a better distribution between
the generations, with older people who have worked all their lives, can retire early and
can be replaced by young people who, without
sitting work. His torch jobs, whereby elderly former (fully or partially) and stop as
the social Maribel required to be replaced by
youngsters.
Strengthen legal pensions.
The Belgian pension system falls short on two
goals of a good pension: protection
against poverty and thorough replacement of former
income from employment. Hang these two objectives
together: the best protection against poverty is a
correct pension. A good example is the
state pension of officials. That pension
equal to 75% of the average income of the
last 10 years. It is automatically adjusted to the
increase in wealth.
The gradual extension of the statutory retirement
for officials to workers in the private would
increase spending on public pensions
to 18.28% of national income by 2030 and
19.68% by 2060. These are not absurdly high numbers.
Spending approximately one-fifth of the national income to about a third of the population (32.2%) is not excessive. We are dealing here
income or purchasing power, the vast
part directly accrues to the economy (through
consumption, expenditures for health care, investment in housing of children, inheritance, etc.).
Four cornerstones for the refinancing of the
pensions.
We can make the choice together for the future growth of national income re else
to divide. The process of aging spreads
from twenty to fifty years. Since a long-term vision should be linked to the wealth differently
distributes. This redistribution is from the solidarity
four cornerstones.
- The most important thing is to broaden the base of social security with more stable, sustainable and
well-paying jobs. We propose that a portion
by the millionaire's tax is used to create those jobs.
- A second part of this millionaire's tax - 3 billion -
is used for a new 'alternative financing' of social security. In this way,
the first pillar be strengthened and the pension benefits up. The Advisory Committee
Pension Sector (recently the Federal Advisory Council
For called Elders) proposed to introduce a property tax in order the transfer during the past decades of labor income
refocusing on capital income at an
decent income for pensioners.
- An efficient approach to the tax fraud will
are of interest, with the lifting of bank secrecy,
transparency of operations, and zero tolerance
heavy penalties against violations.

That fraud comes mainly from the richest strata. They cost us annually between 15 and 20
billion.
- Finally, even the woodworm in the system path
should. Which woodworm, which is the systematic reduction of employers' contributions to social
security. He eats for years the whole system and
proliferates further in various extralegal payments.
Meal vouchers or ecocheques contribute nothing
to social security. This takes the woodworm
social security annually EUR 11 billion less
income. Many of these benefits will be reduced.

The proposals of the PTB +
1. Torch Jobs, right on bridge and early retirement,
no increase in the retirement age.
The early retirement age should remain accessible from 60 years with a career condition of 35
years. The right to early retirement in the general scheme
should be accessible again from 58 years, with a contributory career of 35 years. We want mandatory
recruitment of a young person for every older person who
with leaves early retirement. The early retirees
remain in the regime of unemployment. They have
right, but no obligation on re-employment.

2. We want a special early retirement scheme
heavy work. Since the age of

47

pensions
justice

right to early retirement reduced to 56 years and the
career condition for 33 years. (Under the scheme fall than the employees at least 20 years
worked in a system of night work, such as
defined in CLA no. 46, or the employees covered
under the joint committee of the construction company.)

3. We stand for the strengthening of the legal pensions. We want to gradually expand
the state pensions for civil servants to the
scheme for the employees of the private. In that system
the pension is equal to 75% of income
of the last ten years. The benefits are automatically adjusted to the increase in wealth.
This measure is paid by the millionaire's tax
and other forms of capital taxation.
A strong state pension is the best protection
against poverty among pensioners.

4. In addition to strengthening the income replacement
function of the pension is also the strengthening of a
Poverty protective function required. Even those who may have been insufficiently active in the labor market
a good state pension to build, is entitled
a decent income on his or her old age.
The income for the elderly (GRAPA) flirts with the
poverty line. It amounts to 674 euros for cohabitants and 1012 euros for singles. Just below
or just at the poverty line. The IGO must therefore

be raised to 120% of the poverty line, which is 850 euros for cohabitants and 1150
euro for singles.

48

banks

GoLeft # 7: Bank Power to tires
The election survey by the WPB
Question: "Crisis. Who should pay the bill? "
Answer 46% of respondents "The multinationals and large
banks. They now pay little or no tax on their profits because the
Government permits (eg. notional interest). "

Findings
A. Privatize the profits and socialize the losses.
Then in September 2008 Lehman Brothers first
domino fell threatened by entanglement of
banks to collapse in the entire house of cards. Much
banks were in deep debt. They leave on head
go was not an option: the savings would be gone and
companies would go bankrupt en masse. The banks were "too big to fail."
States cease huge sums aid
in the financial sector and lent giant
guarantee for insolvent banks. They even
pledges for additional future losses.
The low interest rates of the ECB (European Central Bank) and the Fed (the US central bank)
led to cheap credit and very low yields for savings accounts. By reckless
policy of private bankers, the government had also
deposit guarantee acceleration and extend your warranty
to other forms of savings.
It is unacceptable that banks take big risks
knowing that the community has to pay for possible losses. It is also unacceptable that profits from speculative behavior go to shareholders.
Bankers refused the bonus culture - the more
return, the higher the bonus - to renounce or
to send at least. Directors of banks continued

herself so rewarding, even after the debacle, for irresponsible speculative behavior.
Wealthy groups and individuals reap as
Fruits of risky financial operations. In summary:
profits are privatized but losses
socialized. The community pays the bill
and runs on the direct and indirect consequences:
- The government raised the guarantee on deposits
from 20,000 to 100,000;
- The government ensured that the interest rate at which banks can borrow capital, artificial
layer was held;
- The government provided guarantees on loans
the interbank market;
- The government gave the banks financing (see down 2);
- Fortis was done for very little money on hand and
Dexia Bank Belgium (now Belfius) was lured away from
the Dexia group.

Two. All the money for the rescue and the guarantees of the banks bringing the treasury yet
decades in danger.
At the end of the nineties, the government sold Dehaene, Elio Di Rupo as Minister of Economy, the CGER and the Municipal Credit to the private.
The new private banks Fortis and Dexia knew first
a prosperous period.
At Dexia in 2001 profits of 1.4 billion went to
2.5 billion in 2007. In seven years the bank made 13

49

banks

billion profit. Joined the Fortis Maurice Lippens
of the 2.6 billion in 2001 to 4.1 billion in 2007,
accounting for 20 billion profit in seven years. Together booked the two big banks, euro 33.45 billion profit. Which
not flowed to the society but to the shareholders.
Then came the blow of 2008. Suddenly there was a lot of money
necessary to save the banks from collapse. And
Citizens should cough up the money: Ethias, for
KBC - Flanders Pearl - for Fortis and
Dexia. And another for Dexia. We gave 28.2 billion
euro to rescue the banks.
The impact on the public finances remained not out. Finance Minister Didier Reynders already admitted in 2009: "The
impact of support to banks on the debt ratio
corresponds to 6.3% of GDP. "The past
years got the state through the resale of the
Fortis Bank and through the repayment of part of
the advanced money back 16.8 billion (according to the
most optimistic calculations). That is, the
bank bailout has cost us until today at least 11.4 billion.
The government turned up for the failing private bankers,
The debts were passed on to the families.
Meanwhile, the state is still hanging on to guarantees for Dexia in the amount of 45 billion euros. As
Dexia by a new international banking crisis
again in the eye of the storm would end must
the state for nearly an eighth of GDP coverage
grant.

Three. A bench minor reform, the banking sector continues to farmers in speculative products.
After the banking crisis of 2008 solemn oaths were sworn, the banks would henceforth in line
run, it would be done by speculating with the
savings of the population. The government approved in
December 2013 bank reform properly. The question
but whether this reform is the risk of a new
banking crisis off and whether the savings are safe.
Reason for triumphalism is not there.
The most radical banking reform ever after
made exhibition and banking crash of 1929. Also
when speculation exploded a bubble, with a series
bank failures as a result. The logical solution
appeared when the bank activity to dramatically cut: speculative activity was banned for savings banks. Which
had to put all speculation to separate investment banks. The banks got that imposed in the US
by the Glass-Steagal Act of 1933. A commitment
which was abolished in 1999 under the impact of neoliberal deregulation wave.
Even after 2008 many brought about split between commercial banks and savings banks with a minimum formula
To avoid that States should further bear the risky trading of securities (trading), fair values, futures and so on.

50

Universal banks, as we know it in Belgium,
would have to be split into deposit banks
(for savers) and investment banks (for investors
and speculators). It is known: investment banks like
Lehman Brothers in 2008 were crammed with junk products, but they were not alone. Also the
Most ordinary banks had a piece years
meegepikt the lucrative market of toxic packages. They also were caught up in the crisis. The
was so obvious that the measure anywhere from 1933
weather would be removed from the cabinet. But that did not happen, not now at the bank reform
Di Rupo government.
The government made a distinction between the commercial banks for their own account and
on behalf of the clients. The reasoning behind this is mainly their own account for trading on the
root of the crisis and that the trade mission
customers is a positive stimulus for the economy.
That is why the government took a double act:
1. Speculating banned for their own account; as
a bank which wants to do, she should such activity in a
separate, lodge separate entity.
2. Trading on behalf of the customer is welcome,
but up to a maximum ceiling set at 15%
of total assets. Above that ceiling should the bank
every euro hedge with euro from its own resources.
The Government is hereby assume that trading does not
is speculative, but serves as an aid to export in the
hedge exchange risks in business and for the
started pulling Treasuries.
The first measure we can see that there
there is no watertight barriers between the
classic banking and investment banking, as
both under the same umbrella may belong. What
happens when the investment banks, in turn, too
be big to fail? In the second measure makes trading uninitiated that it is very difficult in the balance
banks distinguish speculative activity
of activity with economic benefits. They point out that
subprime loans also had an economic benefit
(the boom in the housing sector), but later proved dangerous explosives. In other words, if you do
the gate leaves open for trading in an ordinary bank,
you automatically get a virus within that deadly
could be. The government parties realize that. Therefore
They also decided that banks, in addition to the
100,000 guarantee on savings, "gradually
free reserve assets must build to savers
can repay in the event of bankruptcy. "

Four. The new supervisors are ... old.
Claimed a week before the collapse of Fortis in 2008
Jean-Paul Servais, then chairman of the
Banking Commission, the Belgian banks' none
problem, either in terms of solvency or liquidity "
had. These "highly qualified" supervisor Servais
Today is the boss of the FSMA (Financial Services
and Markets Authority), the successor ... the Banking Commission.

banks

Luc Coene, the head of the National Bank, the other
supervisor of the financial sector at that time was a key figure in ... Fortis. Filip Dierckx, another
people at the top of Fortis at that time, is now director of
Febelfin, the Belgian Federation of financial institutions.
A banker in the City said in 2008: "We have broken pots, but they ask us to go to pot again
to glue. "And so it happened. Karel De Boeck,
the CEO of Dexia still said, "are in the normal scenario
we safely. No need to raise capital. "This
Karel De Boeck was in 2007 "risk manager"
at Fortis.
The auditors keep people out of the crowd. Than
you might as well the tobacco lobby instruct the
to lead fight against lung cancer.
The very modest recommendations have the Dexia commission at any level any effect:
- The FSMA must be the sale of investment
to recognize the general public (or prohibit). A
label aims to help consumers of the risks to
estimate;
- If liquidity or solvency standards are not met, or if too much is lent
relative to capital (leverage ratio), the can
FSMA prohibit dividends;
- The systemic banks would be a member of the FSMA
National Bank should sit as an observer on the Board of Directors;
- The regulator should issue guidelines for
the combination of mandates within the Board of Directors or in the banking group;
- Supervisors must report annually to parliament a report on the health of the
financial institutions and the risks to which the Belgian financial sector.

The vision of the PTB +
Through the crisis, the Belgian public debt
limit of 100% of GDP exceeded. In 2007
the debt amounted to barely 84%. The Rescue
banks with government money (our money so) is responsible for this situation.
The protagonists of that time are the protagonists
remained. Who a cherry stone spitting in our country, risking
GAS a penalty, but whoever it is responsible for
one of the largest financial craters, which goes unpunished.
Reforms of unemployment, pensions, wages, the statutes of the civil service ... every time we were told that we

must "empower" us "our privileges"
should indicate that "everyone in the same boat"
sits. And meanwhile we already six years no serious reform or serious sanction with regard to the banking world.
The bank reform of the Di Rupo government is
for nothing because the government does not want to touch
the profit logic of the banks. Despite all the clamor
about a "moral" capitalism, the big multinational financial institutions continue to speculate. Logical.
In times of finance capitalism, when industrial
and speculative activities are narrowly intertwined, go
investing and speculating hand in hand. That is in the
DNA of the system. Then you should not have "security" or "ethics" expect private players which only benefit from his. A regulation that trust
states in the private, is doomed to failure.
We do not guarantee safe banks in a
banking world where the most profitable products
in any event, can also be found in the atmosphere speculation. There is
no measure taken to ban toxic products or to the shadow banks, which treasure-trove of such products to address. To the
Tax havens are not affected. After the financial
crisis there was no serious attempt to
massive speculation surging mass of tires
to explain, let alone destroy them. Everything remains to see the emergence of new bubbles. New
crises are not excluded.
The fact is: the world of shadow banks, which
largely falls outside any regulations, it is scary intertwined with the regulated banking system. Banks are
often a conduit for shadow banks or have
own hedge funds in tax havens for their richest clients. Banks also invest for their own account
in products and derivatives, put on the market by
shadow banks.
The bank reform of the Di Rupo government is much
weaker than the ones from the 30s She is also
much weaker than the reforms of the past
years have been approved in the United States and in
Britain. She goes as far as the US reform Volcker in 2010 which any financial or
group band prohibits between the depositary bank and the
investment bank. She even goes as far as the British Vickers-reform, which traditional banks ban
imposes on all trading activity and trading for a
fully divested entity demands, though it may be within
remain the same group.
We gotta get out of the cul de sac of privately
banking and speculation, which - if all goes well - the
lusts go to a handful of private shareholders.
And where - when things go wrong - the government's burden
should wear. Our society can not second banking crisis anymore.
We need to make time left. In order to be able to safely
save and cheap credit will be a division

51

banks

alone are not enough. The community, who carries the now
for the losses of the policy, the policy must be in the
future can decide all by itself and can also collect their winnings. We want a public bank,
version 2.0. Naturally, a public statute no
waterproof warranty. But wild speculation and risky
operations with savings and retirement money can
then be avoided. We impose strict rules - for wages of drivers - and which
checked by staff and client organizations.
We are on a public bench, version 2.0. A new
banking model where the government guarantees the
savings, where no high-risk markets are searched and no toxic assets bought, where
the revenue flows back to the society
investments in the real economy, green energy,
in mobility and housing. That is where banking model
we stand for.

The proposals of the PTB +
1. A public banking 2.0.
To competition-driven recklessness
To stop the banks are special measures
required. We propose that a new public
Bank is founded. Then credit can
an instrument for social and ecological
progress, instead of a gateway to the
usury world.
There will be a prohibition of overlapping directorships. The
drivers may have no interests in the private sector.
There will be a transparent audit committee with representatives of employee and customer organizations.

2. The capital standards for banks should
double the amount of 7 to 10% imposed by the Basel III regulations.
3. Performance bonuses should be banned.
4. To bind the speculation:
- A ban on investment funds (hedge funds) and
hedge funds,
- A ban on derivatives and structured finance products (derivatives)
- A ban on short-term speculation and short
selling.

52

Anti-racism

GoLeft # 8: Discrimination and racism
banish
The election survey by the WPB
Question: "How to combat discrimination?"
40% of respondents said the first priority: "Equal rights.
No discrimination in recruitment in the public service, when renting
housing ... for the sake of sex, color, sexual orientation, origin or language. "

Findings
A. Social injustice is also colored.
Education, work, housing, poverty, social injustice ... affects people of all origins. But the
injustice is strongly colored.
Discrimination and racism to divide the people, put
tackle them head to head in place of the real leaders of injustice.
Employers see strangers and newcomers
easy victims. They use employees
with fewer rights to exploit them with the lowest
wages and worst working conditions.
54% of people with Moroccan origin living
below the poverty line. That is 33% of the people
of Turkish origin and 36% for those with Eastern European origin, and ... 12% for those with Belgian
origin.
When the children of foreign origin living in us
land one in three living below the poverty threshold. Belgium
thus scores of all industrialized countries (OECD), the
third worst figure, just after Spain and the United
States.
30.7% of people with a non-European nationality is unemployed.

The employment rate of people with a non-European nationality decreased in the last legislature
in Flanders to 42.7%. We score thereby
worst of all 27 EU countries. The ethnic divide in
The employment rate in Flanders three times
the size of the EU average, she was the last
ten years less.
There is in our country a clear case of racism: 56%
notifications in 2012 at the Centre for Equality
Opportunities and concerns to Racism (CGKR)
"Racial criteria" of faith and belief.

Two. Discrimination: at work, in education and accomodation.
Research shows: the odds are lower as candidate
who called Mohamed, who then bears the name John.
Even if they both just have the same profile and
exactly give the same answers to the test application.
In 2011 Labor website published a list of
dozens of companies to the employment agency Adecco
no immigrant employees asked for them to
yards. The list of "Blanc Bleu Belge". Were on the list
big names such as Electrabel, C & A and Delhaize. A
severe discrimination that was condemned by the court.

53

Anti-racism

Six of the eight employment agencies in a VRT reportage
with hidden camera went into the question of their
Customers for them no persons of foreign origin
to recruit. Federgon, the organization of the temporary work sector did research it themselves: 28% of the
employment agencies responded positively to discriminatory
asking a mystery hopper.
In May 2012 belonged 26.9% of the "non-working
seekers "- these are the job seekers
highest degree of availability - to VDABcategorie "immigrant". In 2002 that figure was only 15%.
Education accounts for only one-third the various unemployment rate of "minority" and the
"Autochthonous" group.
Also in the public sector falls discrimination: there
works 16% of Belgians, but only 2% of Turks and 4% of Moroccans.
The government recognizes the problem but does not impose any obligation on. Anonymous job applications is still not
fully implemented by the government and certainly not
in the private sector. The CEOOR remains a reporting institution,
does not proactively detect discrimination. Such a field tests for the detection of discrimination remain still
a taboo.
Including education, there is discrimination. 30% of
the immigrant boys unqualified opposite
13% of indigenous boys. When immigrant girls, the figure is 25% versus 7% for native Dutch girls. When young people of Turkish and Moroccan
Originally the figures are even around 40%.
30% of young people of foreign origin is in
BSO, compared with 20% of Belgian origin.
The Minorities Forum has conducted field tests
on discrimination of ethnic minorities
at the Antwerp and Ghent house rental market. From the
Practice tests show that one in three prospective tenants
with a foreign-sounding name was wrong
treated. With the practical tests it was found that
Roberto and Khadija have significantly less chance
find a rental Joris and Nathalie, even though
have the same pay and family situation
and they speak good Dutch.
Discrimination is also expressed in the headscarf ban
in public administration and education. End
2006 led the city council of the Antwerp
ban on wearing outward signs of
religious, ideological, philosophical, ideological or political nature. This was mainly a result,
women wearing headscarves from city functions were
excluded. Shortly thereafter conducted Gent, Lier and other
municipalities such a ban. In 2010 promulgated
the Catholic education, urban education,
provincial education and community education
in Antwerp a general headscarf ban.
Community education introduced the ban
even in Flanders, both for students and for
personnel. Meanwhile, in Ghent reversed the ban, thanks to an action of the midfield.

54

The headscarf ban is a symbolic file
but also has practical consequences. It prevents
Muslim women have equal opportunities in education
and the labor market. By the headscarf ban
women should not decide for themselves what they like or
not wear. That affects their right to self-determination.

Three. The "integration" of minister Bourgeois:
language as an instrument of integration but
exclusion.
According to the policies of Flemish Minister Geert Bourgeois
Dutch is "condition to participation" in the
society, in other words, you need Dutch
know before you may or may participate. This
approach contrasts sharply with the opinion of the Social and Economic Council of Flanders (SERV). Pleading
Integration via Dutch lessons in the workplace.
That is, participate in order to acquire language.
The policy of Bourgeois culminated in the Flemish
Integration and Naturalisation Decree of May 2013. There
everything revolves around integration. The policy covers
immigrants as outsiders who must adapt and results should submit on language acquisition. The required level of Dutch is
increased to A2 level. An integration course
was introduced.
Social rights of assignment is this
made integration depends. You must demonstrate willingness, and thus a civic and language course
follow, you will be entitled to PWC support. Over there
a protocol was agreed between VDAB and CPAs.
And want to rent public housing, you have to demonstrate your language and willingness to follow the integration course (the
Language Housing). Otherwise, you have no right to register
or may terminate your lease in the trial period
be.
It exudes a certain atmosphere, "the onproductieven out and only keep the productive ones." That
reinforces the idea that migrants social security
come looting. It creates distance between populations.
The decree radiates narrow-mindedness, considering the language
an exclusion mechanism. There is an image
hung obligation which language would be necessary because
newcomers were not prepared to learn Dutch. However, 80 to 90% of the target voluntarily participating in the courses and the drop is limited.
Meanwhile, the policy does little or nothing to the fair
thresholds for these courses:
- No children, no public transportation to the
place where the course, ignored the
working hours of the trainees;
- Too little supply so that waiting lists; and
few offer tailored (older people with little or no
have received training, have a harder
to acquire a foreign language);
- The gap between the Dutch in the general course
and the regional language in the home and / or workplace.

Anti-racism

Four. Stricter conditions to be Belgian,
lead to more exclusions.
To find a job is one of the main reasons why people apply for Belgian citizenship. Do you have the Belgian nationality, you'll more
chances of finding work, even in the government. (The In Brussels
public services accounting for more than 60% of the
employment.) Small patrons refuse non-Belgians
because of much paperwork that is involved with it.
The federal government has rules to be Belgian sensitized stricter in 2013. Especially people
with low incomes or with little or no schooling,
interim workers and unemployed people are the first victims
these stricter laws. Whose nationality
requests, must henceforth knowledge (level A2)
a demonstration of the three national languages, as well as his / her
social inclusion and economic participation (in the
Using a diploma, language skills, a job ...).
Belgian nationality acquisition should depend on objective criteria, but the new regulation is an obstacle to those who it
are hardest.

The vision of the PTB +
The diversity of the population is today a reality.
The vast majority of people coming
the migration is an employee and is among the world
of labor. It is thus "double" faced with a social injustices
cause.
Thus working class children victims of inequality in education: they rarely go to the
university. But that's more the case with the children from migration, which almost all come from working class families. The social inequalities faced by all
workers and their children are facing, is
by immigrant workers reinforced by the discrimination they suffer because of their origins, their
culture or their religion.
Discrimination and racism interests the whole of the
world of work to. When a group of workers not
the same rights as the others, should that group
to accept at lower wages and conditions
work. Thereby get the wages and working conditions of everyone under pressure. On construction sites
many seconded workers from Eastern Europe is that
clear.
New antisocial measures are often prepared by firstly against workers of foreign origin
applying. They are more vulnerable. For-

image: the obligation to work as a 'volunteer' will
you receive a living wage from the CPAS. Example:
the rise of flexible jobs with an uncertain status.
But racism is also a political tool
"divide and conquer". It will startle those who have everything to lose, against those who have nothing.
We know: together we are stronger. We endeavor to ensure
all discrimination lift and fighting
racism. In the first place, against the patrons who
exploit workers of foreign origin to work in
black with poverty wages. The government must
more intervene to protect people from
this malpractice. That's good for everyone because
so you prevent a negative spiral downwards.
The government recognizes that there is discrimination in recruitment, but it is limited to "persuasion" in
employers. The field test, that would indicate that
an employer discriminates, is promised, but she is there
still not. The government can set a good example
give, but she does not. She'd mandatory
targets for migrants can provide jobs
in education, healthcare and the public
control.
This discrimination frustrates the young people of immigrant descent, the children of immigrants who join
our country built up: to be rejected at first
school, and then in the search for work. Some
of them derailed. We can largely be avoided by putting an end to discrimination and
inequality.
Governments must not join in the major axis along which racism is spreading: the discourse that followers of the Muslim religion stigmatize, diaboliseert and fueling fears for them. That
For example, running out on the exclusion of women from
the labor market and education because they wear headscarves.
The government here can set a good example
active by the administration to a pluralistic profile
give. Partly because of the headscarf ban in
the government to abolish. We have for a
strict separation of state and religion. Than
the state should not interfere in religious
issues. The state administration and the public
space should be secular and neutral, but that is something
other than personal conviction and individual choice.
We stand for a policy that the meetings between
people of different communities stimulates
both in terms of work and planning as
culturally.
Discrimination to fight you, do not maintain. The language should not be misused as a means
exclusion, learning should be a right of it and

55

Anti-racism

their use should be encouraged. Everybody
who lives here has the right to learn Dutch.
Even people without papers. The long waiting lists
for language classes in adult education must
be eliminated. Knowledge of Dutch is
important, but it should be no condition of admission
be for social services, social housing
or social support. Classes can optimally by them
more to organize customized embedded in the social
contexts, such as a tenant, employee, local resident, older ...
No, the situation of inequality is not in favor
of working people, not the "native"
and not from the "non-indigenous". We strive for equal
rights. Whose three-year legal residence in the country, should
automatically obtain Belgian nationality. That is
an important way to achieve equal rights.
It does not solve all the problems of racism and discrimination, but it is an important step. And then
easier to grow unity in the struggle for a
society on a human scale.

The proposals of the PTB +
1. To stop discrimination in recruitment:
Introduction of a practice test for discrimination
job applications to detect. And random checks to ban discrimination in the workplace.
Scientific research indicates that this their
service have proven.

Mandatory targets, for both the private and
the public sector.
- We promote a diverse and non-discriminatory
staffing and recruitment policy, which eventually
resulting in a workforce that is a reflection of society. Let's external
Signs of a religious and / or philosophical vision to the workplace.
- We make that controllable on the basis of
ambitious targets that take into account
the appropriate level of competence and which both
inflow for the permanent staff group
are used.
- We take for companies public
to perform or for organizations that require support, including their efforts to diversity policies into account when assigning public contracts or grants. Discriminatory companies
and organizations are excluded.

56

Language and other exclusion mechanisms
not related to the job description, stop. Flanders scores quite poorly when it comes to the
employment of people of foreign origin.
Therefore, we conduct checks on exclusionary mechanisms such as the requirement of proficiency. We strive
free lessons for Dutch with good conditions.
We work thresholds for those courses Dutch
away. We provide a sufficient flexible childcare, flexible hours. We take into account
people who combine classes with work. We take into account accessibility via public
transport, the problem of slow learners and
been learned ...

2. For a quality education that is accessible to everyone. The enrollment policy in the
Schools must change completely. Education would
all children must guarantee a school close to home, a quality school with a great social mix.
Instead of the jungle of tender now is
then assigned a school to every child with the opportunity
then change schools. We want a thorough adaptation of teacher training to raise awareness among future teachers of social
inequality in education and prepare them for
for a diverse school population. We want more resources from the Flemish government for multilingualism
to promote education.

3. Invest in intercultural encounter. Stop the
savings in this area.
- Diversity is a reality. We want a policy
which actively promotes pluralism.
We promote activities that appeal to
stimulate the existing diversity and exchange. We promote cultural and artistic exchange
and cooperation.
- We are committed to solidarity rather than competition
to stimulate at the bottom. We focus on the
common interests (security, quality of life
neighborhoods, adequate childcare, fundamental rights ...) and
we advocate for mediation in conflicts or opposing interests (use of public space ...)
- We oppose the pruning of subsidies
for the society: Community development, community work, outreach, functioning socially
Vulnerable youth, the immigrant society
(Minorities Forum), Associations where the poor
Word Take ... The government should not replace
join that society.
- We oppose the shift to a
sanctioning (GAS-fines), repressive (after the
GAS sanction you should come to the GAS mediator,
mandatory volunteering) and "aanklampend" policy
where the aid workers hailing and
guidance of "clients" in a switch is the
curative-repressive chain (police, GAS official,
mediator, social worker).

Anti-racism

4. Lifting the headscarf ban.
This ban discrimination in employment. It excludes women from the labor market. Access to work should not depend on a philosophical
or religious belief or practice, not in the private
and not with the government, which actively pluralism and
should promote respect for everyone.

5. Automatic assignment of the Belgian
nationality to all those three years in the legal
resident country. No integration test on the nationality acquisition.

6. Equal work, equal pay.
- No obligation to report to the social inspection as they establish residence. (That gives sans papiers more
safety in case they want to file a complaint with exploitation.)
- Joint and several liability for contractors
through subcontracting people in black employ. (If you avoid that big companies such as today
people can exploit but the sanction dance anyway
spring.)

57

Europe

GoLeft # 9: A Europe of solidarity and
collaboration

Findings
A. A social and economic catastrophe in the
European Union.
The banking crisis has torn apart the fragile structure of the European Union. The gap between the richer
countries led by Germany and the poorer
countries in the south and east of Europe is sharp
come to the surface. There is the law of the
strongest solidarity is no question. To the Union
to hold and save the euro, there is only one
motto: everyone needs in the pass of the most competitive run. Since six years of providing the European population
in: cuts in social security, health care and pensions; downsizing of public
governments; privatization and downsizing in state-owned enterprises; poverty jobs, wage freezes and wage cuts.
Everywhere in Europe, where they have since the beginning of the crisis
was imposed, the savings to the same political
result guide more deficits and more debt. In
Greece increased debt in two years of 127%
to 165% of GDP. In Spain, increased debt
36.7% in 2008 to 96% of GDP in 2013. Idem
For Belgium, the debt went from 84% in 2007 to more
100% today, a nominal increase of almost
hundred billion, and that "in spite of" the 22 billion
savings between 2011 and 2014. The saving policy
the problems only worsened: the more
savings, the deeper the recession. The austerity policy has never worked and never will work.
Neither the north nor to the south, nowhere is there
an example that can have such a positive policy results
submit.
There is no next look: since 2008 in the EU 10
million unemployed have been added, from 16 to 26 million.
And there were 9 million poor in: from 114 to 123 million. That's one out of four European citizens. Ten
percent of families with a wage income now lives
below the poverty line.

58

In the countries that had imposed the heaviest sacrifices, the figures are much higher. In Spain
every day put 115 families from their homes. In Greece
wages have fallen by 10% and pensions by 30%. Greece, Portugal, Spain, Italy, Romania,
Bulgaria, Ireland and the United Kingdom hear now
to the group of countries with the greatest wealth gap and
come gradually near South Sudan or Paraguay.
The European Union and the European governments opt
sure to shift the crisis on the working and
weakest populations. Also in Belgium, which occupies an intermediate position between the richest and poorest countries,
it is five years since the policy of the Federal Government
and the regional governments. Belgium joins in the
procession of social destruction.
Savings policy is also an economic disaster.
The automotive sector is the symbol of this. The market
is constantly in trouble and continue to decline in value. The European car market lost 3.8 million cars in six years:
from 16 million in 2007 to 12.2 million in 2013. That
also has repercussions for the industry that these
sector produces: electronics, tires, steel, glass, tools ... It could hardly be otherwise, with all surrenders.
Never since the Second World War, the unemployment rate stood so high. Spain and Greece coming close to 27% of the working-age
population. For the young climbs above 50. The
official figure for Belgium was the end of 2013 to 9%, but
The NEO pays a full unemployment benefit
out to some 665 000 people, which is 13.3% of the working population. And this despite the forced
parking in nepbanen young people and women
in part-time jobs. And above all, despite the growing
some exclusions.
The plan 2020 of the European Union was
a decrease in the number of arms with 20 million working

Europe

loofd. If we continue the same course, there will
rather recover 20 million. We see phenomena
crop up which until recently with Third World countries
were associated: slums on the outskirts of
some capitals, large numbers of homeless people
seemingly prosperous cities; small children who are not
go to school and go to work for a bit
To earn money for the family; people who do not have
medical care can afford and therefore
postpone doctor visits; museums, archaeological sites
and infrastructure that are not maintained
and hove to leave because of lack of resources;
an increasing number of suicides and mental disorders ...

Two. To save the banks, they pushed the
states the crisis.
Following the American neoliberal politics
also pushed European governments in the 90
to the right, sometimes led by Social Democrats
Blair, Schröder, Cook or Gonzales. They liberalized the financial legislation so that European banks
it benefited from the speculation in derivative
products. When that flea markets collapsed in 2008, it was revealed that European banks
thousand billion had toxic products
piled up. And the governments that had liberalized everything, now is walked from the body to the legs
banks rescue because of too big too fail. They gave the
European banks 670 billion direct aid,
by nationalisations, capital increases and to cover losses on junk products. Also today
still locks countries such as Ireland and Greece, hundreds of billions to the financial sector. Not
to rescue the Irish or Greek people or the Irish and
Greek state, but to "save" the European financiers.
We take the 'model pupil Ireland. That
country would have managed to work his way out of the crisis
thanks to the remedies from the European Commission. The
balance sheet looks very different. Since late 2010 received
Ireland 67.5 billion loans. But at the same time the country wrote a total of 89.5
billion over the financial sector. Two-thirds
it ended at the banks that have progressed debt, all foreign creditors. Meanwhile
remains the social and economic situation in Ireland
catastrophic: the Irish could not in any way
benefit from the loans. They are burdened by the
austerity policies forced upon their country
to pay all that unreasonable debts.
European countries crossed into debt to their
banks rescue and are now in a double catch
22 situation. Those who need the most resources
to stimulate their economies, are the highest
debt and have the least room to maneuver.
The European Union is forcing them to surrender the largest operations, reducing purchasing power and revenue.

The banks? Which now go virtually unpunished. Jade
new rules of Basel III capital requirements increased, but to be really safe work which would double
should be so high. To prevent a repeat of the banking crash, the Union Bank was set up:
thé European showpiece. Six thousand European banks
came under the supervision of the European Central Bank
and there was a "settlement procedure" for banks
difficulties which the states should no longer indented. But it is more than doubtful because
a full separation between ordinary and savings banks
the commercial banks do financial operations, will
not there. Neither the commission Liikanen or Commissioner
Barnier have this minimum measure, which was imposed after the bank crash of the 30s, retained.
What is, like the Belgian bank reform and
which is weaker than the UK and the US.

Three. The European Union is organizing the competition between workers of the countries of the
Union.
The European Union is built on four major freedoms:
the freedom of circulation of capital, goods, services and people. That is already in the Treaty of Rome
(1957) chiseled. Step by step, the EU works to make the freedoms of the market above the fundamental
rights and social protection.
That is also true with the directive on secondment from 1996.
That Directive provides that workers who perform work temporarily in another EU country, although
must receive the minimum wage there
and are also subject to local collective agreements concerning
working hours, labor peace, holidays, safety and
temporary work, but not under the wage collective agreements. That is
a license for legitimate social dumping. Entrepreneurs
from Eastern Europe unhindered their competitive
labor sending and undermine the local labor market. Unscrupulous companies may
take advantage of the lack of control to set up letterbox companies in Eastern European countries and of
there false organizing secondments with labor without much social security and working
on a minimum wage.
This social dumping also has the endorsement
given by the European Court of Justice in several controversial rulings (the Viking and
Laval). In the Laval case (2008) was a strike
Swedish union against the dumping illegal. The Court also condemned the Grand Duchy
Luxembourg because it negotiated wages and indexation
as minimum imposed for posted workers.
The low-cost employee is the modern slave. On
That way, in the countries that employ posted workers, including wages and working conditions dragged down. That phenomenon
threatens the whole system of social protection. On
a few years, the number of posted persons
had risen to 1.5 million.

59

Europe

The Enforcement Directive which will shortly be submitted to the European Parliament, it is only a confirmation of application and tighter sanctions
Posting of Workers Directive from 1996. (The only progress in
The new directive is the unconditional recognition
the right to strike.)

Europe, where social protection to a minimum
is reduced, have an advantage. In the countries of southern Europe are the privatization and commercialization
invariably on the register of the troika, as in they
90 belonged to the firm dictates of the IMF
Africa and Latin America.

Four. Public services and social
care are threatened by privatization and commercialization.

Health care is a catchment area for multinational
companies such as the German Fresenius, which in September 2013 purchased 43 hospitals of society
Rhoen-Klinikum AG and European leader of the
commercial hospitals, with 175,000 employees.
As eagerly pouring international companies on the "
gray gold ": the elderly and nursing homes. In July
2013 acquired the French group Medica, owner of 220
nursing homes and care centers, the biggest Belgian player
on the market: the Senior Living Group, owner of 47
institutions. In November 2013 merged with Medica
the even larger French Korian group to be together, the European leader in elderly care centers with 600 rest. According to the two CEOs is
especially intended to weigh heavier on the Stock Exchange
and attract investors. Of the seniors there
better to sail, is another question.

For twenty years the European Union bashing with the
breaker on the public nature of businesses
play a crucial role in providing social services.
She does so not by public companies frontal
forbid, but by subjecting them to commit themselves to the rules of the free market. For example, the need to
social logic to yield to the logic of the market, so that the
cost effective pieces of these public companies ripe
be made for privatization.
That was true for the telecommunications companies, public
banks, railways and postal services. Step by step
according to plan, they were subjected to market dictates of the European Convention: prohibition of state subsidies, ban on state monopolies, banning crossed
subsidies (the transfer within the same company, profit from profitable departments in loss
other departments to cover). Throughout the consequences
catastrophic in terms of employment, working conditions, business relationships, pricing and service
public.
Let's take the example of the post. Since
In 2013 the sector is fully liberalized after fifteen
years of European directives. A private company may invoke
throwing every sector of the postal market. Private partners are
entered into the public postal operators.
Former national companies such as the German
and the Dutch Post go beyond their borders
competition with other companies. Employment decreased by 20 to 40% are postmen
replaced by independent postmen who
several hours a day and at a poverty wage to the
get started. The workload for the remaining postmen is heavy, with longer routes and time constraints, to
cost of services and the social contact.
Now the European Union also wants to win over social public sectors for commercialization and privatization.
The debate erupted in 2006 when already on commissioner
Bolkestein took out his directive on the free circulation of services in the closet. The opposition of the unions
knew "non-economic services of general
interest "to pick out the directive: health care,
the elderly, Social Welfare, the babysitter ...
But by the breakdown of the social security and the
cuts in public services, and by "aging ghost" private companies see great opportunities
Conquer a huge new market.
The privatization of hospitals and the commercialization of health services throughout the stand
European Union on the agenda. The countries of eastern

60

The European Union is committed to the social
Services and extending it as a competitive,
cross-border market. This also appear
all phenomena of market logic on the surface: the disappearance of the universal insurance,
health care at two speeds, a selection of
patients according to risk factor, extortionate and so on.
The new Directive on public procurement, which
was approved on January 14, 2014, opens new
opportunities for participation of private companies in
public works, outsourcing and public-private partnerships, including in the social sector.

Five. You can not save the climate with a CO2markt.
The European Union was the first to respond positively to the aspirations of the Kyoto Protocol to the
To reduce CO2 emissions in industrialized countries. The Protocol attached to the industrialized countries
is the emission of greenhouse gases in the period
2008-2012 to reduce by 5% compared with
the level in 1990. The European Union took the bull by
the horns and decided, true to its core principles,
for a market mechanism for CO2 emissions under
to claim. The first carbon market was created: the Emission Trading Scheme. 11 000 enterprises and power plants, which are responsible
for 50% of CO2 emissions in the EU, were given free
emission rights (quotas) as a national distribution system. Who more emissions, it must buy quota
carbon market, which is supplied by companies
have surplus. In theory, that should prompt companies to use less fossil fuels and more energy efficient to go. But each

Europe

company makes the assessment that the least cost: investing in energy-efficient production methods or buy emission rights. For example, the protection of the planet and the rescue made depending on the climate
an exhibition game. The price of emission rights
the market then determines whether the business climate problem
au take seriously. In this system, the profit logic
central, not of the planet and the future of the
humanity.
When the starting signal was given in 2008 for the
CO2 market - there was a trial beforehand - collapsed
other exhibition together: that of junk financial products. The economic recession in the industrialized countries that followed caused a large
surplus of allowances. Result: instead of
a compulsion which the companies are obliged to clean up their emissions, the carbon market for the biggest polluters a profitable business, because they have
the largest surpluses. ArcelorMittal example
In Belgium for 90 million tons of emission rights received in 2008 but used only 68 million tons. A
lucrative bite when the price of an allowance
at one stage even at 30 euros per ton state.
Then shut down installations can be a lucrative business. Between 2005 and 2012,
ArcelorMittal 156 million tonnes of CO2 "saved" by the
provisionally closing plants in Europe, and which could
redeemable for 1.1 billion euros.
From 2013 to 2020 is the third phase of the Emissions Trading Scheme. The European Union has
its Strategy 2020 which registered 20% less
emissions will then in 1990, 20% of energy
will be supplied from renewable sources and that there is
20% more energy efficiency and saving will be. To
To achieve this target the market price of CO2 would lead to
above 100 euro per tonne should increase, but at this
Please state the price at the lowest point: less
than 5 euros. It shows that with the market as a guide
and under impossible is a planned transition to
to achieve a sustainable economy and renewable energy sources.

Six. The euro, a currency that is poured into the nickel from the competition.
The euro is not at all created with a view to a
harmonious cooperation between the countries to the
agriculture and industry in the Member States and regions
promote, create stable jobs, the
to address environmental challenges and to build a modern corporate services. Of the
germ was the currency used to make stronger the big monopolies in the competition with the
US and Japan. The exchange risks were eliminated
be, would reduce transaction costs,
European market would become larger and more stable.
That seemed to work until the economic storm in 2008, the large difference in development and economic
strength of European economies laid it bare. In
such an event can only maintain a monetary union if there is solidarity transfers between richer

countries and regions to poorer, or if an iron hand
reigns over the whole. Because the lure of
The large international companies driving
force of European construction, the second
choice made, that of the iron hand.
Maintaining the currency union has become a weapon to "set things right". The German chancellor
Angela Merkel Business Europe formulates the desire of the Round Table of Industrialists, the CEOs
of the large European multinationals when she says:
"If Europe does things right states can not strengthen its budgets and its competitiveness,
they will no longer play a significant role on the world stage and step by step must yield. "The attackers
today come not only from the US and Japan,
but also from emerging countries and especially from China.
It is why the threat of the collapse of the euro zone unified force is
repulsed by the European Central Bank (ECB),
the European Commission and the European Council under
Led by Germany as the strongest nation. Around the
speculation against the weaker countries to restrain
the ECB should keep his monetarist dogmas
and the bazooka of money creation over achieved.
To keep the forced monetary unit directs the Troika (ECB, European Commission and IMF)
Tight savings and surrendering memoranda in Greece, Ireland, Portugal, Spain and Cyprus. To the
to get circle of the 'winners', those countries
lower wages and benefits, social rights
reduce, privatize public services and the
weakest industries cut. In the Union of the winners, there is no place for solidarity and support because
it only weakens the willingness to remediate
and to bleed the population.
Therefore, all countries have been eaten by the same anti-crisis program of savings and social decline. On the economic front which change programs quickly into a cure that is worse than the disease.
In order to treat the disease, the patient is slain.
Economic activity falls silent, lowering tax revenues, they end up in a downward spiral. The
is one of the main reasons for dragging
the economic crisis in Europe.
"Absurd" than a man thinks, but from the standpoint of the multinationals is logical. They want the
seize large foreign markets, especially in the
growth countries. Domestic demand is not their
utmost care. The wage is seen mainly as a
a cost that must definitely down. And before that
serve the savings plans. In order to continue this logic
intrude, you need an iron discipline.

Seven. The coup of the European Union.
Crises are exquisite moments to force matters. The European Council and the European Commission
have benefited from the dust that the crisis
kicked up to do what they in broad daylight
never could have done. They put across Europe

61

Europe

social and economic policies under guardianship of
"Experts" coming directly from the major financial
and economic groups. They gorged themselves powers which by no democratic
control or decision are approved and which far
intervention in the sovereign decision-making of the
national states.
The proponents of a radical strengthening of the
European powers took the opportunity
use to rage in the forward with giant strides
towards a European political and economic
government. The rescue of the euro and the eurozone
the decisive argument was new powers through to locks.
In the background they have the support of the powerful employers' groups expressed knew the dynamics of unification since the 80s and philosophy
determine the European Treaties. All counts example
The European Round Table of Industrialists (ERT) barely
50 members, 50 representing a turnover
thousand billion euros with a workforce of
6.6 million workers. They dictated in the 80s
the project of the Single Market 1992. They advocated
the single currency with the strict convergence criteria, the "Maastricht criteria". In early 2002 they set up the
course for the next phase: the "economic
governance ", strict centralized authority that
entire economic policy would send. What normal

periods would require a lot of time and effort were the bosses' circles now easy. There was a
straitjacket for the annual national budgets and
economic plans of the Member States, the European
semester in which the European institutions assess the austerity and reform plans of Member States and streamlines.
This "economic governance" straddles three
pillars:
1. A mandatory Fiscal Compact (including Fiscal Pact
called). The "exploratory" standards for the budget deficit (3% of GDP) and debt (60% of GDP)
were converted into tighter, mandatory standards. Each
country should bring the structural deficit over the medium term below 0.5% of GDP. The
great principle is the "golden rule": "Either the budget situation of public authorities (state, local
governments, social security funds ...) in balance
either she surplus. "
If the government of a Member State exceeds 60% of
GDP rises, the government should undertake
that working too much away at a rate of one twentieth per year. The Belgian debt reached 100% of
GDP currently stands at 365 billion. The reduction of the debt by 5% per year is given the
stagnation of GDP for Belgium down to lower
the public debt of more than 20 billion in the
following three years.
2. With the Euro Plus Pact, the European Commission extended its scope to the global economic balances in the euro countries. This gives
they zeggingsrecht on strictly domestic matters such as

62

social policy: pensions, reduction
the number of officials and of the benefits,
indexation of wages ... If a Member State rules
not respect that country to the Commission and
to the Council a program of mandatory structural reforms. In Greece, Ireland and Spain were the "structural reforms"
in recent months: pay cut for the
officials decline of pensions, decline
unemployment benefits, reduction in the minimum wage,
deregulation of employment contracts and authorize
bargaining at the enterprise level that deviate from collective agreements and labor law.
3. In its Strategy 2020 (the successor to the Lisbon Strategy in 2010), the European Commission
set target standards established in terms of employment, research, poverty ... The
Governments must specify exactly which structural
they will implement reforms, for example in
they plan to increase the employment rate. In addition, they may choose "freely" between longer
work, raise the retirement age, more flexibility, more part-time work and temporary work, the statutes
abolish, reduce social security contributions, limit the dismissal or unemployment benefits
limit.
To the dictates of the first and second pillar (Budget Pact and Euro Plus Pact) unenforceable
is a legal arsenal established, the "sixpack" with
penalties for offenders. From 2014 a can
land fined 0.2% of GDP as
targets are not met. For Belgium would
which amount to about 700 million euros. The
whole is neatly into the "Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance in the Economic and Monetary
union ", abbreviated to VSCB, cast. That treaty was
in March 2012 signed by 25 heads of state and
Government of the European Union. The Belgian parliaments, including the socialist
Representatives and the Greens, have
in December 2013 ratified at the last minute.
Now it VSCB approved, Angela Merkel
a new pressure instrument in the eye: the reform contracts. Which were discussed at the summit
from December 2013 but the Government want to make
but of hearing after the elections of May 25, 2014,
for fear of damage.
Here is what will be taken up again in June 2014 in order to
decide to come on top of October 2014: as
IMF gives loans to countries in the South, provided that
heavy sacrifices you probably know, the chancellor wants cheap
give loans to countries that enter into a contract
their labor, their pensions, their officialdom to
reform. Merkel wants to fill two gaps in the
coercion arsenal of the European Union. She believes that there
too much space before the approved standards also lead to sanctions against violators. She finds
that there is also a too large space between the countries that

Europe

under the supervision of the troika and the other countries
of the eurozone. Hence the idea of ​​reform contracts. That should be there "before each
too late. " As bait there are cheap loans
for the countries that with such a reform contract
let chastise. Why such loans should come,
still has cleared, after the elections of May
2014.

Eight. Winter for democracy in Europe.
A Commission with tremendous power, but still
is subject to the most powerful states, Germany
on head; a Council of Ministers which ultimately has the power to decide; a Parliament that does not
has much to say and not having the possibility
to take legislative action; and a Court of Justice
that the laws and European Directives interprets in
the benefit of employers.
Since the crisis the budgets of all countries
Eurozone under guardianship of an "economic government" who is entitled to decide what is good and what
not for the 300 million citizens of the eurozone.
But talk of a "government", which is a big
word, because the members of the European Commission
not chosen. National governments and parliaments
have an almost protocol task. The prime ministers of
Ireland, Greece and Italy were dropped and replaced by unelected technocrats - coming
from the big banks and the European institutions -
their populations to sacrifice them without real
democratic approval. The European Union, the Greeks refused a referendum on the umpteenth
savings.
The European Directive of 2006 on the retention of data should be recast.
In Germany, Romania, Cyprus and the Czech Republic
Constitutional Court declared this law unconstitutional, with "extremely serious consequences for the
citizens' rights and an unprecedented scope. " The Court spoke of "an unwarranted interference in social life and in the private activities of
citizens, "which can result in" personality profiles
and detailed profiles of movements
virtually all citizens. "

Nine. An inhuman, excluding European migration.
Came the European laws on migration
to stand in the context of the competitive strategy
of the European Union. A directive for a European
"Blue card" to make Europe more attractive
for highly skilled personnel. Holders of such a blue card enjoy the same treatment as national
nationals. For the European Union, there are only
benefits associated with this system, while for
the countries of origin, which in most cases
training of such personnel are funded purely
is loss.
It encourages the migration of foreign workers in those sectors where shortages
employees exists. In this way one avoids

European employers, wages should increase in the
sectors with staff shortages, often due
of the working conditions.
For others, for those who are not highly educated,
Decisions remain about the duration and conditions
licensed exclusively the competence of the
Member States. This policy facilitates the arrival of migrant workers who are in a dependent relationship
confront their employer because the statute makes
the residence of these people depend
of the work for which they have this permission
received. If they lose their job, they also lose
their right of residence.
This policy for an "exclusive migration" reflects
the interests of the business world. It creates vulnerable workers with an uncertain residence and
with temporary residence permits, depending on the
goodwill of the employer.
The creation of an area without internal borders, the Schengen area had a strengthening of the
control of external borders of the Union as a result.
People who flee a country towards European
Union do so almost always illegal, mostly because it does not
easy to obtain a visa. The European
States seldom grant a tourist visa or
a visa on humanitarian grounds to people from a
third world country or a country at war, which naturally
could apply for asylum once they are in the EU
have arrived.
In 2004 the European Union took to Europe to "defend" against people fleeing hunger,
semiclandestiene a military organization: Frontex.
Frontex makes war against clandestine migrants.
Die every year from an impressive number of migrants:
drowned at sea, disappeared in the Sahara and so on.
To escape the controls of Frontex are the routes and pathways that these people,
increasingly dangerous. Frontex intercepted refugees and put them right again across the border,
towards their country of origin, although these countries
sometimes the Geneva Convention relating to the Status
refugees unsigned. Frontex also makes
does not distinguish between adults, minors
or unaccompanied minors. The organization is infringing
constantly international standards and ignores the law
to seek asylum, her boot: candidates are deported before they have the chance to apply in
to serve.

Ten. The trans-Atlantic Treaty (TTIP), which
Negotiations between the US and the European Union is a social and ecological danger.
Behind closed doors negotiating European
Union and the United States on a transatlantic
market integration "trade and investment barriers will take away" at the expense of workers' rights and
environment, complete with product regulations, harmonization of standards and so on.
The intention is any kind of "anti-competitive behavior"
to switch off, in particular, whose public

63

Europe

companies or products of the local market would
favor. If this treaty comes through the European Union will have to allow US imports of
all kinds of products they now suspect designates:
beef hormones, chlorinated chickens and genetically
modified crops (GMOs), which many in Europe
more strictly regulated. Products that one of
the partners of the treaty designates as trustworthy, may be sold everywhere: as Europe surrendered to US inspection services.
The big companies want this agreement also
basis for a struggle against what they call "counterfeit" and "industrial theft". They want a legal
framework, which operates independently of the individual states, where they can lay complaint against
countries would not the "competition rules"
respect.

The vision of the PTB +
The basis of the European Union is the free competition, open market for capital, people, goods and services. That treaty after treaty further
imposed, with more coercive measures, to enter into competition with economic rivals. In
that logic prevails profit hunting and not a social
or ecological priority. The European Union is a province for financial and economic international
businesses, they dictate the evolution of the continent. In
the Lisbon strategy in 2010 was summarized it succinctly: "The most competitive economy in the world." However, since 2008 the European Union has
become a major source of concern in the world. Nevertheless, it is
not abandoned the destructive logic of competition
which is becoming a social graveyard and create a lost generation.

Social progress, sustainable development,
cooperation and solidarity.
We want other foundations for a different Europe.
Social progress, sustainable development, cooperation and solidarity should be the basis
a European project. They should in the place
out of competition and inequality. We want
a continent where the system sectors,
now too big to fail are in the hands of society as a whole. Where corporate services
and the companies are focused on the needs of the
population. So we can tune the economy
the greatest needs and we can honestly wealth
divide. If we usury, parasitic behavior and speculation bring structural bottom up, then we can

64

automatic debt to sustainable proportions
traced.
We stand for the abolition of the Treaty of
Lisbon, the European Constitution adopted in 2008 and was in no plebiscite
subject. We reject the liberal basis
the freedoms of the market makes up the social and democratic rights. Social Rights and the
basic democratic rights must be inviolable. They can not be subjected or
be put on a par with the economic "freedoms" of the market.
The European Union should not have the right States
measures to impose social dismantling.
She would rather an upward spiral in social
corridor should spend minimum standards on
lay like a wage at least equal to
a percentage of GDP per capita. Above the
minimum standards must have each Member State's law
to ensure higher standards and its own collective agreements and social
to maintain legislation.
Therefore we reject the recent power transfers
the European Union off. We want the abolition of
the Budget Pact and the Euro Plus Pact, compressed
in the VSCB. We want the withdrawal of the binding
European semester, the six-pack with sanctions
and other measures which the anti-democratic
"Economic government" strengthen.

Another debt policy to the crisis
reverse states.
For the debts that weigh heavily on all countries
Europe, reduce, we need other ways
then go the way of saving and social decline. The basic principle should be: not the victims
but let the guilty pay. An in-depth,
transparent and democratic scrutiny should clarify the real causes of the debt of the European countries, and which part
the population actually repay.
Not all debts are by definition "bad". A government can take out a loan to a hospital,
railway or to build a school.
In the countries of the south of our planet must
debts not for investments in favor of the
population. Debt is there a powerful transfer mechanism of wealth: the majority of
the world to the owners of capital. The
debts are a tool for creditors strengthen their grip on all aspects of life. Threatens that scenario also for the European
countries?
Depth research must collectively and democratically
determine what debts we can put in question.
The first goal is to reduce the amount and the rate of repayment. Numerous legal texts such as
the United Nations Charter, the basic
forms of international law, confirm that the
Human Rights take precedence over the rights of the creditor

Europe

plaintiffs. "In case of conflict between the obligations of the Members of the United Nations under the present
Charter and their obligations under any other international agreement, their obligations
under the present Charter shall prevail. "(Article 103)
A government that has the political will for it, so can
legally suspend the payment of its debt, as
which payment implies that basic rights
are respected, including the right to education,
on health care, social security, the right to
a place to live and so on.
For the majority of third world countries but
for Greece, Spain and Portugal, where basic social rights are at stake, such a suspension is justifiable perfect.
Countries such as Belgium or France could lay down that the amount of the refund some
percentage - for example, 5% - of the state of resources should not exceed, in lieu of the heavy
straitjacket imposed by the VSCB.
The second objective is to force the holders of debt securities to a major debt restructuring. Previously
A number of measures have seriously studied
be:
- Extension of repayment and with it
reduction of the refundable amount.
- Reduction of interest.
- Remission of part of the debt.
We want to delay, suspension or cancellation of
Public debt protect small savers
who have placed their savings in government documents as well as the employees and pensioners
who is part of their social security contributions by the management bodies are positioned in such pieces.

Public services and defend social rights.
In a market economy, public services must be protected and must
Public companies have the right to grant, to
monopoly in certain sectors and in internal "cross-subsidies". We therefore call for the abolition of
articles 101 to 109 of the Lisbon Treaty, which the commercialization and privatization
Public companies impose. The social and cultural
sector must be protected from commercialization and
commercialization.
The struggle for social harmonization, we can
but conduct provided that strict measures against social
dumping which organizes now the European Union itself. There is
one rule for employees in secondment: for
equal work, equal pay and social protection.
We want the European Posting of Workers Directive in that
revised so that the CAO wages and work conditions
the host country are fully respected. The
fundamental rights of workers are not
would prejudice the free movement of persons.
Contracts serve the basis for an indefinite period
forms of employment policy, with respect

for higher wages in the host country and
everywhere minimum wages at least 60% of
the median income. With assurances that everyone in
single undertaking or business at the same site
receive the same pay for the same job with
same tasks.
We want an employment policy which improves working conditions by addressing the stress; that the national rules of the social security
respect and furthermore encourages countries
compare their quality and performance (organize benchmarking) according to the most advantageous
Facilities for wage and benefit recipients.

Protect the climate and environment.
The energy of the average European citizen
77% comes from oil, gas and coal. Nuclear energy
provides 14% and the remaining 9% comes from renewable energy sources. There is a need in terms of turnaround
investments, savings and energy efficiency
reduce carbon emissions by 2050 by 95%, as the IPCC experts to prepare a target for developed countries. The emission ceiling that
EU operates in Strategy 2020 is insufficient to
we keep global warming within 2 ° C.
The used market mechanism of the Emission
Trading Scheme is counterproductive. The abolition of
This ETS may open the way for a directive
standards system that imposes mandatory constraints.
The European carbon market should not serve as a model
for the commercialization and commodification of nature in the countries of the South.

Against authoritarian interventions, defend
democratic rights.
The Legislature would exclude the European
Parliament should be that more powers
need to get. National parliaments need more
interpellated be on European issues before the European level taking any decision.
We endeavor to ensure to build a countervailing power from
the citizens and especially the unions.
We come up against the authoritarian interventions and
against the tightening of all kinds imposed conditions. We strive for democratic measures:
in each country a referendum on the Treaty of
Lisbon and referendums on the key decisions on the Functioning of the European Union.
The fundamental right to privacy and to personal freedom should be immune from any
citizen who is not subject to judicial
procedure. Telephone tapping and the interception of communications should not be authorized if
they are properly argued and officially
adopted in the context of judicial proceedings. The anti-terrorism laws must go.
That migrant workers in such a position be
that makes them inclined to accept any working conditions and pay all damages

65

Europe

employees. To the dependent position of the migrant worker with respect to his employer at the time
limit, we link the right of residence separate from the
work: we give after a certain period of stay a
residence permit for an indefinite period.
We watch over the correct definition of
"Staff shortage" so that employers no
pretext for foreign labor
recruit who accept to work on poor
circumstances, in order to avoid in this way that they
which will improve working conditions.
The regulation in the social sphere for migrant workers within the European Union must be improved. We
fight against the exploitation of legal migrants, but
also of illegal migrants.
European policy uses the migration tool
for competitiveness. Therefore, the Union refuses fate
controlling the thousands of undocumented migrants
do not ask rather than legally to work. If we
everyone would regularize since a long time stays in the country and work, both the migrant workers and the entire group of employees
are less susceptible to employer blackmail.
It is important for the social protection of
migrant workers that they, whether they are legal or not, are unionized.
Geographically, Greece and Italy gateways
to the European Union. The conditions for the
reception are terrible. It has to be finished with the hypocrisy that the whole weight of the
European immigration slide on the back of these countries.
No country has the capacity to really the only
misery of the world bear burdens, but otherwise
for the European Union as a whole. Europe
responsibility for the situation in which "illegal" to enter: it has colonized these areas, it has not ensured for industrial
development, it has the new "free" states in their
abandoned, it only meant that the own
businesses are able to continue trading and the
local resources could be looting.

2. The fundamental democratic freedoms and
social rights are above the four liberal
Market principles (freedom of circulation of capital,
goods, services and people). We endeavor to ensure
that the European Union can no social decline
impose, but only leveling up, and
or by setting minimum standards. Every country
the freedom to use better standards above the minimum standards.

3. The Euro Plus Pact, the six-pack, the Convention
Stability, Coordination and Governance (VSCB)
and other measures to strengthen the authoritarian "economic governance" must go, and the criteria that form the basis of the strict
fiscal policy imposed by the European Union
Under its rules for growth and stability or
the context of the VSCB (with the "golden rule").
The planned reform contracts must go.

4. We want a democratic scrutiny of the
debts of European countries. We like it
reduce amount and rhythm of their repayment
and reduce the interest on it. We want the cancellation of all illegitimate debts of Third World countries and the countries of southern Europe.

5. We want a tax on international financial
transactions. To all transactions, including derivatives and
exchange transactions.

6. To tie in the speculation we advocate
a triple ban on European level:
- A ban on hedge funds and hedge funds,
- A ban on derivatives and structured finance
products (derivatives)
- A ban on short-term speculation and short selling.

7. Revision of the European treaties in order
public enterprises no longer remain subject to the rules of the competition, but it
get status of public service. On the first
Instead, we want the articles 101 to 109 of the Treaty
Changing of Lisbon so that safeguards are there for
the status of "public company", with the right to
subsidies, cross-subsidies and a monopoly right.

8. The sector of social services and the
culture sector must be protected from
commercialization, privatization and marketization.

The proposals of the PTB +
1. Social progress, sustainable development, cooperation and solidarity should be the basis
a European project. They should instead
out of competition and inequality. That's why we want to raise the Lisbon Treaty. It is
totally undemocratically imposed in 2008, as a form of
liberal European Constitution.

66

9. Revision of the Posting of Workers Directive and
announced the Enforcement Directive. For secondment

secondment may only apply one rule: for equal
work, equal pay and social protection.
10. Minimum wage everywhere at a level of at least 60% of the medial income. Systematically

raising the criteria for solid and dignified
workshops across the European Union.

Europe

11.Opheffing of the carbon market (Emission Trading Scheme). Replacement by mandatory emissions standards with fines for violators.

12. National parliaments should have the
European issues are interpellated, prior to any decision on a European level. We
work for volksreferendums on the Treaty of
Lisbon, VSCB and on all major decisions relating to the operation of the European Union.

13. The fundamental right to privacy and to personal freedom should be immune from any
citizen who is not subject to judicial
procedure. The anti-terrorism laws must go.

14. Immediate discontinuation of the negotiations on the Trans-Atlantic Treaty
(TTIP).
15. Foreign workers we give after a certain
period, a residence permit of indefinite duration. We
regularizing undocumented migrants for a long
period of stay and work in the country.

67

public services

GoLeft # 10: The public services expand
The election survey by the WPB
89% of respondents in our survey is totally agree or tend
agreed with the statement: "In order to combat the crisis should the government intervene
in economics. They should start from the needs of the people, not from
the profit.

Findings
A. Privatization and commercialization of
public services = less expensive and
sophisticated services. And more profit for the
private.
The 90s brought the liberalization of the energy
and telecommunications, and the privatization of
banks. The services were expensive; the people got lost in the jungle price, the staff was squeezed like a lemon, driven by commercial performance, at the expense of service. The 2000s
brought the liberalization of postal services and SNCB. The
led to the degradation of working conditions, but
also from the services. And now threatens the liberalization of urban public transport and water,
and the extreme commercialization of the healthcare sector
(nursing homes, assistance for the disabled ...).
The aim is always: separate the profitable parts to make them interesting for private capital.
Public services are a new market for the
capital in crisis.
The Europe Union is promoting the policy of liberalization and privatization. The government follows the Union therein.
Key sectors that may be interesting for
private companies are publicly owned today.
They are now under fire, with an ideological offensive uses terms like "empowerment" and "actual cost" (let people pay what
the service cost effective). In practice, the offensive
to more expensive public services and privatizations
with the fallacy that does not include certain services
the core tasks of government.

68

Two. "Private works better than the public sector." Just ask Fortis and Dexia!
"Less state intervention, the private is more efficient than the
State ", repeat the praised of neoliberalism.
But no study makes this claim.
On the contrary. 130 years were banks like the CGER
and Crédit Communal managed by public
sector. That functioned very well. But when they
the private were sold lasted ten
years before they went bankrupt. The government had to
billions intervene to save them. Thus, it is the
Private which has not proved capable of such a
manage important sector as that of the banks.
Worse, this private banking system has a crucial responsibility in the crisis of 2008. And
What lessons these banks have drawn? That
they could do whatever they wanted. The states began them
nevertheless save because of too big to fail.
But the logic is: if the state grants funds must
He also at the helm, and the use of that money
Checking in the interest of the people. The banking world is far too important to him in the hands of the
to give private, which has a tendency to play with fire.

Three. The commercialization of the health sector.
From babies to the elderly: age for profit is of no importance.
According to the Planning Board had to be added 60,000 new jobs in 2013 in the non-profit sector. In several sub-sectors, there are waiting lists. So sometimes you need

public services

six-month wait for an appointment at a center
mental health. For the disabled
Flanders has a waiting list of 26,000 people.
About 20,000 of them waiting for a form of
provision. Nearly 6000 people are waiting for a personal assistance budget. The money for the nonprofit
is totally inadequate to meet the
increased demand.
Private jump through the hole to take over healthcare. Because whether they are babies or the elderly, for the
private groups are issues other than age tel.
First child. To cope with
the lack of space, the policy used two miracle recipes to rapidly increase the number of childcare places: childminders who, despite all the promises,
still have to set a good and nepstatuut
for 36% of the shelters. And in addition, the
independent initiatives, which are partly subsidized, are subject to lower standards and profit
should make. They provide 43% of the space available, an increase of 10% in five years.
The pressure is great to give more weight to the
commercial initiatives. The first objective is:
a profitable activity unfold on a market.
The government then used only for the parents
support the expensive payment of these services.
(With childcare vouchers for instance).
A new Flemish decree for the care of babies
and toddlers is under construction. Anyone offering child care, will have to have a license and
The rules will be the same for everyone. However, there is
a distinction between small-scale family daycare
("The childminders') and group care
(crèches and nurseries). There are also clear conditions for training and employment.
But the guidance standard - the number of children per
accompanist - is far too high. In addition, the price
the reception is not linked to income: crèches can continue to use their own rates. She
will also have to make any extra effort
places to cater for a diverse audience. In place
a more accessible and affordable care
this could well end up with a very expensive
cost. All because it can cost nothing
to the government: it must be a budgetary zero sum game
be.
Then the elderly. The number of housing units in
nursing homes (ROB) and rest homes
(Nursing homes) will have the next 40 years by nearly 60%
rise, to 205,000. For the next ten years must recover 24 300 beds. Therefore, it is a
interesting sector for private investors. In Flanders half of the ROB and nursing homes managed
by NPOs (often from Christian charitable angle)
40% by the government (for the most part from the
CPAS) and 10% by private commercial initiatives.
Currently, many students into family homes
hands of business groups. Listed

investment companies such as Cofinimmo, Waterland and Ackermans & van Haaren invest money in
nursing home infrastructure. They buy initiatives they
then rent or lease to commercial
care groups such as the Senior Living Group, Senior Assist, Armonea or Orpea who operate nursing homes. Which
commercial care groups do so from profit considerations. Economies of scale are important in order to increase profit margins.
Many municipalities want from purely financial considerations or on their public nursing home. If you the
CPAS takes care homes as standard (index 100), then
NPOs have a staffing of 92.5 and
the private sector but one of 71.3. In a privérusthuis
seven people must therefore do the work of ten
people in a CPAS retirement home. The quality of the
care suffers from too tight staffing in the privérusthuizen.

Four. Post and SNCB: an expensive CEO with a hard
policy for the people.
Bpost, the Belgian Post, is now listed on the stock exchange. To make a success of that IPO
the company had to be attractive to investors:
a sanitized, flexible enterprise with high
profit margin. The opening to competition of the
Belgian post has already had serious consequences for
the quality of service and for the staff. Dividends and other distributions to
shareholders increased from 42.4 million in 2006 to
390 million in 2011, nine times more. In the same period, the number of postal workers fell from 35 207 to
27 973: a decline of 20.55%.
Users see service across the board
deteriorate, many post offices are closing, there
are going to be mistakes in the postal and letters
lost. Gradually, the social role disappears
of the post.
In 2001 there were 1 342 post offices. In 2011, bpost
only 676 post offices and 697 points. Since
2005 4000 red mailboxes disappeared from the streets.
Belgium today is among the European countries with
the smallest density of fixed post offices per number
inhabitants.
The management contract states that bpost about it will watch to ensure the social role of the postman with respect to isolated and disadvantaged people.
But today the postal workers get no more there
necessary time. The stress is rampant
increasing. Postmen and sorting in a sorting center
make permanent reorganizations with. In a large
post office, where once worked 125 postmen are
them today for the same job with only 75. The
strategic plan Vision 2020 plans a further decline
Staff with 10 800 units by 2020.
Not so long ago, all the staff at the post
statutory, so officials. In late 2009 created bpost
a new (sub-) status: help postmen, with monthly 200 to 300 euros less pay, no year-end

69

public services

premium and with a number of leave less. And that
all for the same work and the same exact
service.
Late 2013 and early 2014 were the high salaries
CEOs of public companies as a pain point at the government table, but its causes are unblemished. Because if you opt for a model
public service as a publicly traded company
and operates according to the logic of profitability all
large private companies, it becomes difficult
to fight on the same "market laws" also
rules are determined in relation to the remuneration of
the leadership competencies. Such companies want to attract the supposed "best" leaders who aggressively
style have lead and have contacts in their luggage with big investment funds and with the
scholarship, like Johnny Thijs, who in his crossing from
Interbrew private investor CVC put in. In
that model the state must reap some dividends
and silenced, demoted to the rank of an ordinary shareholder. This state will be the new CEO
bpost keep paying twice the salary of the Prime Minister, or 650,000 euros.
At SNCB rail, liberalization leads to chaos.
The NMBS since 1991 an "autonomous public undertaking" with the status of a public limited company. Their Shares
are still in state hands. The railway
is increasingly managed as a private company, with the aim of unconfirmed sales in the medium term of the beautiful parts of the private.
Today the track is a mess, with delays
and crowded trains. Many people feel unsafe in the train and the station. The railway staff
is despondent about it. Because of the bad material and
Staff shortages may provide inadequate service. Moreover, in 2013 nearly 30,000 trains
abolished, double the number five years earlier.
Increasingly will train staff complaints, but
also threats and aggression.
Even the environment is suffering from the poor track performance,
because poor public transport encourages more private transport. The result: more cars and longer traffic jams.
Cause? The fateful liberalization policies
the European Union, supported by the government. This policy forced the SNCB to action
The competition to enter. End 2012 193 were considered
less profitable considered abolished train lines. The
SNCB builds its personnel file. Of 41 300
FTE in 2001 to 34 500 today.
This has an influence on the safety, and the service
the offer. In addition, the closure of ticket offices
(45 stations with counters) and their replacement by machines, more expensive train tickets, train attendants less,
less assistance for the disabled, less staff
information to travelers, less staff supervision.

70

The 2013 budget resulted in 140 million euro
savings. Minister Jean-Pascal Labille provides for
2014 a decrease of 100 million euros on the
investment allowance and € 50 million on operating grant. For example, investments are being phased into the national rail network. The projects for the
often saturated line between Brussels-Midi and Ostend
to expand and to do something about saturated north-south connection in Brussels are still in the
study phase; nothing has yet been decided. Also saves on the purchase of rolling stock.
The government also confirmed the breakdown of the
governing bodies of the NMBS. According to EU directives
namely there must be legal, organizational and management just made a separation between the
infrastructure management - in government hands
remains - and rail operations, which can also play private companies.
The new structure, since 2014, consists of two independent companies: SNCB railway company
and the infrastructure manager Infrabel. A report
however, indicates that the punctuality of trains began to deteriorate with the division of the NMBS
in various companies, and according to specialists,
Another of the federal railways in Switzerland,
one of the best rail networks in the world, is the
separation of the management of the rail lines and fundamentally wrong.
The split will lead to a disruption of the decision-making process and to a significant increase in
costs. A number of functions now exist in duplicate. The staff at stations or signal boxes can
not directly exchange information (eg
the reason for a delay, a jack,
resignation of a group ...) The staff gets only
access to the information by "own company"
is distributed.

Five. The federal government diverts the cuts to the municipalities ... and the neighborhood services
pay the bill.
In almost all Belgian municipalities reads saving clock. The purse of the inhabitants, the municipal services and the municipal staff are
in the budgetary line of fire.
In Antwerp, the college wants the number of urban (district)
offices and reduce the working hours more flexible.
The number of city officials scaled back
with 1420 jobs. Who's left will have harder
work. A study of the ACV indicates that in the
municipalities 25.000 relations threatened
the next few years. In Schaerbeek, the price rose to
childcare in some cases by 66%.
Some municipal services the situation is intolerable, especially for social services. The
CPAS see the number of people in difficulty
significantly increases, along with the exclusion of
unemployed without the budget allocated for the
expenditure increases. Rather, the Municipalities, along which the higher authority can distribute tax money

public services

to the cities and municipalities, reduces its part
in the budget of those cities and municipalities. Municipalities which constitutes a solidarity mechanism between
rich and poor municipalities. The dismantling its floats
poor municipalities to tax and local
raise taxes in order to get around their budget.
Municipal politics is dictated by neoliberal logic. This is no coincidence, because the federal
and the European level apply this logic. So
there the budget standards set by the European Parliament
were approved (the fiscal compact, the six pack ...). Laying all levels of the fiscal
balance by 2016. But had the churches
in 2012 a deficit of 1.3 billion. They allowed their
shortages no longer complete by Appeal
do on their reserves. The ability to invest
will thereby be reduced drastically. Disastrous, because about half of the public investment in Belgium are done by the municipalities.
The politics of city marketing plays cities and municipalities against each other in a competitive battle for
private investment. Antwerp here spans the crown.
The budget that gives priority to developers, merchants and wealthy tourists. So get cruise tourism and business tourism 4 million. The
city ​​also spends 4.5 million tax dollars
improve the look of the diamond industry. Which
suffers from a negative image because he manifests refuses to pay taxes and penalties. In this way
is tax money of the ordinary inhabitant gift
done to the rich elite. That kind of investment increases the social gap in the cities.

Six. Public office: the citizen becomes a client,
the officer is squeezed like a lemon.
The Di Rupo government announced that they have saved 22 billion to cause no harm to equal
Who. Whence come these 22 billion then? Out of nowhere?
Previously, in the public sector, for example
Replacing five out of five people when they went on pension, now that's only one person in three.
That is a particle of the statement. And all departments of the country now wonder how they make their
taken will be able to carry out still further.
Over five years, the staff in the federal civil service has dropped by 4600 units, and the Flemish
officialdom 1500. The notable decrease See
you at the officials level D, especially under the
technical, administrative, kitchen and cleaning staff.
The Staff Regulations is attacked. When the federal government is today almost one in five civil contract (not labeled as fixed). On the Flemish
level is that number up to four out of ten, and at
local authorities is often more than one half of the
staff contract. They have - not uncommon
crack the same job - a much less favorable rules for sick leave and pension, and no or less

promotion. The ministers want the statute now
the fixed-appointed degrade to the level of the
contractual.
As of January 1, 2014 introduces a new "cash race" for federal officials. In the
new career the requirement will "scale seniority"
and the required number of favorable evaluation entries
the basis for the transition to a higher scale. Evaluations of "improving" the labeling
or "unsatisfactory" delaying the transition to a higher salary scale. It means immediately end
the permanent appointment, for the annual evaluation
linked to the career who are doing it right, gets
promotion; Who is doing badly, flies outside. Statutory
or not. The evaluation is performed by the direct
Superior, which will lead to arbitrariness and nepotism.
These are methods of privémanagement wherein
The user becomes a client and the official is
squeezed as a lemon. No more time people
to operate at a counter, for example to help
when completing a tax return.

The vision of the PTB +
If you up in the morning and early bus
takes, there are sometimes only a few people on the bus.
You're glad that bus there because there would not be without you
can go to work. That is public service.
The public service is organized general
interest. It's money that we all bring to us
to provide quality services that are accessible to everyone.
That is the opposite of the liberal vision in which everyone pays his own services and thus depend on its own capabilities. During the public
services not competitive mentality of "each for
themselves "which is specific to the market economy. A government just has never meant so much
to allow for a profit. There is a transfer of resources from sectors with a comfortable margin
to deficit sectors.
A government faces a number of concepts such as equality of the users, because the
cost sharing among all stakeholders.
Public services is spread over the entire
territory, with the same flat rates, or
now remote or go to urban areas,
function of the preservation of the territorial cohesion.
The accessibility of public services is
insurance for every citizen, regardless of income,
thanks to the solidarity between more and less affluent citizens.

71

public services

It will assure continuity, because the provision of services is essential for citizens and because
the public interest takes precedence over financial criteria
profitability.
The quality of service, but also the employment suppose effectiveness. There is thus
no just taxpayers' money to throw down the drain. There should also be transparency
are not political loyalty.
The willingness must exist to evolve with
technological and organizational change. That
is necessary for the proper functioning of the public
service and to meet the changing needs.
Social profitability takes precedence over financial profitability.
If profit being made, it must serve to
To ensure the survival of the service. Profit
is not an end in itself.
The status of the employees guarantees that the public sector retains its independence, regardless
political changes.
It is advantageous for citizens to be engaged in the
improve services, with citizen committees
to help thinking about improvements at the municipal, state or federal services. But also
better control of trade union level is needed to
public services to ensure the people. That
implies that the overall philosophy is revised from public services.
Then the salary of the business manager not
defined in terms of "market forces"
but from completing the collective needs.
We live in a society with much loneliness and
individualism and with many depressions. We all desperately need positive human contact,
We want more attention to the social.
Previously, nurses reassure patients and assist, but they are still there
barely time. This also applies to nursing staff in the nursing homes. In the bus supervisors are
abolished. They could even chat with
travelers. Teachers, students who what
have difficult, no longer closely follow because
the classes have become too big. And the postman,
which was for many people the only figure they put on a
day got to see and who fulfilled a neighborhood function,
Now there is no more time for that. The counter staff
in the mail via "bank within everyone's reach" the
people - including the disadvantaged - could help,
now get only three minutes for each "customer" to their
To get sales goals. Etcetera, etcetera. Experience shows that when the private is it going to interfere, the government lose their social insertion.
Hence our opposition to privatization, commercialization and liberalization. We want to care for the
elderly. We want the child, SNCB,
mail as a public service are preserved and himself
may develop.

72

First care. In Belgium, the provision of care,
although mostly private, still largely
organized by non-profit organizations. But the
accessibility of the system is threatened by
increasing market bondage and commercialization, both in health and in care. Which bring better access, but split and risk selection. The government has to its central
role in the development and management of care and solidarity
welfare remain record and that role is not
leave it to the market. Social security and sufficient financial resources of governments should
guarantee a sufficient supply of care and
welfare. Bring the needs of the population identified,
assess them objectively and make the necessary resources
free to meet the needs. Do not longer
an appeal to come over staff from less
advantaged countries themselves also need
skilled workers.
Babysitting would, like education, should be a matter of course for society. The
Children's Commissioner calls a child
basic provision that each child should ideally free of charge
should be accessible, with attention to quality and professionalism. The Commissioner says
in the debate about childcare in Flanders
economic function still weighs heavily. Childcare will be viewed as a means to more people (especially women) to get the job and at the same time
as a solution for parents to work and family
combine. But just the parents who are the weakest
labor level, much less have access to the
daycare.
The rail network has the assets to a
central role in solving the mobility problems vervoersen. Ecological is the train
best alternative. It is crucial for the mobility of
people without cars and for disabled persons.
The liberalization of the railways is a failure. By
let the market play the last thirty were
annual 1,200 km of roads have been built in Europe,
while in the same period of 600 km per year railroad
disappeared. Overall, the proportion of the
rail freight traffic declined in favor
of which road transport. The last decades
in Belgium nearly one thousand railway connections (
medium and large companies) abolished. The
liberalization also led to a downward spiral
in terms of working conditions, investments in equipment
and security measures.
Public transport needs sufficient resources to ensure an efficient, cheap public transport to
can insure. The criterion for the operation, it must
are: the satisfaction of travelers. The bills
must be verified by a democratic body, to avoid wastage by private consultants and subcontractors. With a decisive political
you can win more travelers to the track: decrease

public services

prices instead of increasing them; open new lines
(in number and frequency). It is necessary, socially and environmentally. You can not discourage the use of cars
without setting alternatives in its place.
Our vision is that the government ensures the quality of the postal service, the majority of the closed
post offices open again and make sure all
post again immaculate, with respect for the privacy of correspondence, will be awarded and that the social role of the
postman in honor is restored. We want to see the postal service close to the citizens. We want to upgrade the working conditions there again and the post
adapt to modern communications: internet,
cybercafé and so on.
We want the austerity policy in public
office stops at federal and municipal level. The
Government savings serve the profits of the
to secure large companies. Those interests prevail
to that of the population. Public services and
employment shifting to the background. The
would have far more sense in times of crisis more eye
for the completion of everyone's basic needs, such as child care, waste collection ...
For municipalities, the maintenance of public
employment and quality services
fundamentally. Fiscal measures should there
note. Social needs should be prioritized. The imposed budgetary restrictions
cutting the municipalities financially off the breath. We want
which break through a refinancing of the Municipalities.
Public services should be upgraded. The federal and regional authorities and city governments to consider a budgetary burden and
as a priority saving post. But for us the
public and social services at local level
crucial.
A city belongs to those who live and must
everyone remain liveable and accessible. Who has the difficult, is not helped by luxury prestige projects. Opposite the city marketing, that of the
public domain makes a sale product, we propose
the right to the city: affordable housing, quality
education for all, decent public transport.
This vision contrasts sharply with European policy. The
government should have the right of initiative, so they
destructive competition can reject, can massively
invest and the European diktats on budget
can lay down beside her balance. To the development
to make possible a strong public sector,
must Article 107 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which prohibits aid to public enterprises should be repealed.
We want to stop the austerity policy, which is why we want the Budget Pact remains that the state budgets
locked into a straitjacket of limitations without end.

The proposals of the PTB +
1. More staff in the nonprofit. There is an acute shortage of health care for all ages: nursery (st) ers, nursery policy (st) ers, nurses and
caregivers for care institutions and for the care of the disabled. In order to
needs to fulfill its ten at twenty thousand jobs
required.
We want a broad offering that for each (ideally)
is accessible free of charge and with attention for
quality and professionalism. We want the waiting lists
away.

2. The government should its central role in the development and management of supportive care and welfare
without prejudice to continue recording. She can that role
do not leave it to the market. Social security and
adequate financial resources of governments should guarantee a sufficient supply of care
and welfare.

3. We want an efficient, well-spaced, safe
and cheap public transport (train, tram, bus).
Here the priorities should urgently review
be.
We want to invest massively in a dense transport network
for passengers and goods. We want regional
speed Express Network (RER). We want quality trains. In this perspective it is important that the
railway companies remain state-owned companies.
Harmonization at European level in the field of
safety, routes and fares is perfectly conceivable
without having to liberalize the net.

4. The item must be a public service again, 100% owned by the government. She has to
Purse leave and provide public
ensure service:
- A postal service close to the citizens. Most
Open the closed post offices again.
- Restore the social role of the postman in honor.
- A public Bank of the Post.
- The employment again make decent.
- Adapting to modern communications: internet, cybercafé and so on.

5. We want the municipal social services
maintain, against any form of subcontracting
and privatization. Delete any jobs in the municipal services and the CPAS.
6. We want a moratorium on all charges, which the duties and taxes at the municipal level
take self-employed workers and small (parking,
domestic garbage…).

73

public services

7. The federal state and the regions must via
the Municipalities increase municipal funding by 15%. The money for this refinancing should come from a millionaire's tax, and
the fight against tax fraud and evasion mechanisms.

8. We want the loss of civil service, federal and regional, stop and Staff
officials maintain.

74

purchasing power

GoLeft # 11: Protecting purchasing power
The election survey by the WPB
18% of respondents feel that the purchasing power is one of the top three
the problems we have to address first. 52% want to preserve the index
mechanism by which wages and benefits parallel the actual
increase in the cost of living.
36% is for maximum prices for commodities such as housing, nutrition and
energy.

Findings
A. The government continually mess on the index to lower real wages.
Year after year, life becomes more expensive. We feel that.
But Belgium was not one of those rare countries
Europe with an index mechanism, the social achievement which wages automatically adapt to the consumer price index?
Our neighbors do not, this automatic adjustment. Since the unions have to go again and again
negotiating and campaigning for an adjustment
of wages to the cost of living. For many years is that the
unions in Germany failed, what the purchasing power
fall did.
And with us? The prices of 611 products (bread, meat,
refrigerators, movie tickets ...) are checked every month. Once the sum of these rates over a
certain level is, the salaries and benefits
automatically incremented after a certain period of time.
However, the purchasing power is declining. How is that possible?
Since price rises but "partial and delayed" are passed, says the National
Bank of Belgium. Why is that? Abolish the index is
difficult. That would provoke too much opposition. Successive governments used a detour to keep the index effect limited in the name of the "reduction
of labor costs ".

There were three index jumps in the 1980s. And in
1993-94 was the government under pressure from employers fiddling with the index. The government came to the
up with what she called the "health index".
Henceforth they would not consider more price increases for diesel, petrol, tobacco and alcohol. But
net fuel prices in recent years as well
as doubled.
The research department of the PTB calculated (in 2012), which
successive index manipulations employees
have caused a loss of purchasing power of net average 287 euros per month.
In 2013 the government stopped the prices of the sales of white products and in the index basket. Not to miss
misunderstood goal: to curb the rise in the index. In
In 2014 the index was again changed with the introduction of the "chaining". This mechanism comes from
the US, but the social movement that has the
successfully combated. Numerous American studies have
demonstrated that this "chain-linked" revenues
wage earners, especially the poorest, would greatly
have slowed.

Two. The price increases of recent years
primarily to basic products.
An examination of the Walloon federation of CPAS
showed that between 2008 and 2012 the cost of the

75

purchasing power

shopping cart for a family with a low
Income increased by 10%. Rents in Brussels
the last 10 years with 45% increased. Since 2004, went
price of electricity by 39% for gas and up
... with 65%. Energy is for lots of people
excessive expenditure.
All of these increases relate to essential goods, which are not integrated in the index
sit. Which is calculated by other products.
While it is true that a lot of these commodities
greater place in the household budget of families with low incomes. Hence income
of these families - even with the index adjustments -
grew much less quickly than the evolution of prices.
They have lost purchasing power.

Five.



Three.


Six.
















not.


The argument for this lock is that the Belgian
wages are higher than in neighboring countries. That's right
not. If we take into account all the exemptions
(for 11 billion euros, combined), receiving employers
in terms of wages, then the Belgian wages rise even slightly slower than in neighboring countries.
The wage freeze is also dangerous: it worsens
crisis. The National Bank of Belgium has calculated that our
country in 2012, a year of economic downturn
experienced as a result of the reduction in expenditure
of the families and of public spending. That the
families are spending less makes sense given their
real income has declined.

Four. The income gap between workers
and large patrons becomes larger.
The great CEOs and executives pay themselves excessive salaries with top bonuses, stock options and
other benefits. Some employers in the Bel 20
earn fifty times more than workers of their
business.
With all its benefits and premiums will be the new boss
Belgacom, Ms. Leroy, despite all
words about lower salaries for top managers in the
government, earning 800,000 euros a year. It also
salary of the director of the National Bank is above
500 000 euro per year. Quite a lot higher than what the
Most earn his colleagues in Europe.

76

The number of women and men with a job that should knock at the CPAS to complement
get their income has doubled in ten years.
More and more people have an income below
than the risk limit of poverty. In concrete terms,
it to an income of less than 1000 euros
month for a single person. Or less than 1 600
per month for a single mother with
two children.
These figures are the result of a policy that the labor disruption.

The total labor cost for the employer is to
gross wage plus employers' social security contributions. Which
contribute belong to the indirect wage, they are good
For about 35% of gross pay. In the indirect
pay is holiday pay, child benefits and sickness and disability insurance, plus the benefits
pensions, early retirees and the unemployed of today. The indirect wage is a form of
deferred salary that you deserve as a "reward" in the case of
sickness, unemployment or retirement.
The traditional parties like the burden on labor
reduce employers by reducing indirect wage. We are going there to win anything, quite the contrary.
By reducing indirect wage puts the government
the financing of social security is at stake.
That can only compensate them less holiday pay, lower pensions and lower sickness benefits,
or by visiting other search revenue, such as an increase in VAT or "green taxes".
Successive governments already realized
drop in "labor costs" totaling
11 billion per year. The Di Rupo government decided
again three times 450 million reducing the costs to
to know, understand well: three times 450 million gift to
the businesses. That will happen in 2015, 2017 and 2019,
always in the year of a new interprofessional
agreed.
We know that's never any investigation revealed that reduce indirect wage, employment subsidies, tax gifts so even
something yielded for employment. This policy
only brings social security and public
services in dire straits.

purchasing power

Seven. More and more of the wealth produced goes to profits, less and less to
wages.
Between 1981 and 2011 the primary gross operating income rose from 8.1 to 69.5 billion euros, an increase of
758%. After deducting inflation it goes to a
increase of 282% or an annual increase of 4.57%.
In the same period the primary income from its
employed increased by 367.9% or 108.3% after deducting
the impact of inflation. That is an annual increase of 2.47%.
The income of companies and their shareholders
so took almost twice as fast as that of
employees. The share in the wealth produced
(GDP), appropriated by corporate profits, has doubled in thirty years. Was that share at the level of
1981 remained a year there would be 36 billion euros more
available for wages in private. Per employee is on average equivalent to 1,200 euros gross
more per month.

Eight. There remain major wage differences
between men and women.
In 2010, the wage gap between men and
women 22%. According to the Minister of Labour is
difference "in recent years, but very slightly reduced." In the private sector, wage differences between
Men and women even to well above 30%. Nevertheless
these wage differences are not inevitable. At
the government they are much lower because "the wages
administration are regulated much stronger. "
Women work more part-time than men.
Aside from the differences in hourly earnings has part-time
course work a major impact on the monthly and
annual income. Measures that the accessibility of
crèches and childcare limit (eg
reducing the deductions for the cost of
childcare) or measures that the wage conditions
for part-time workers deteriorate, then have
also much more influence on women.

sits on a slippery slope towards self-destruction, a
process large chunks of the economy
destroyed.
Since 2008, we see large corporations unbridled downsizing on wages, on employment,
on working conditions ... As a result,
the profits from the pan swing without the existence of
only real revival of the economy.
The companies profit explosion is not used for productive investments. The profits are hoarded.
With that ammunition the strongest companies can on the
right time to mow the grass feet
their weakened competitors and a greater
rake in market share. Multinationals such worries
For new and even tougher competition. It is the
germ of new, even deeper crises in the future. Many also go to cash dividends
for the shareholders, with net yields
15% and more.
The European Commission and many economic and political leaders in Europe, including in Belgium, seen as a way out:
the German model. Germany is export world champion.
The German (export) companies make plenty of profit. Germany still has a small growth.
But the German model based on wage dumping,
precarious jobs and an army of millions of poor workers.
And so it is not exportable because that would
anywhere further undermine demand and the crisis
worsen.
It is also not exportable because the export of
one of the import of the other is. Because Germany exports to the southern countries of Europe which had
stabbing themselves into debt to pay for their imports, and
their own economy let go to hell.

The vision of the PTB +

The first question in the debate on wages is: who is
responsible for the crisis? And who should pay?
Has labor costs caused the crisis? Or is it the
Profit hunt?
We know: the revenues of the companies and their shareholders have risen almost twice as fast as
that of the workers. The wealth produced is not
narrowed the contrary. However, the part of it that
employee benefits is reduced. Being
Taxes on capital which weigh on the economy and
on businesses: the profits distributed to the major shareholders. Which have tripled in eight years.
If your boss tells you today that your pay should be frozen
are, it is because the shareholders a higher dividend requirements.

Everywhere in Europe are the same plans on the table
"To get out of the crisis": savings plans and plans
corrode purchasing power. The big companies requirements,
name of the sacred cow of competitiveness, the reduction of labor costs. But if all employees
every country at the same time to tighten the belt, then
government expenditure increase due to the higher
unemployment and tax revenue will decline as
due to a decline in purchasing power. The system

These are the workers who produce wealth and prosperity. That wealth should benefit them:
directly in the form of a sound and wage
indirectly through public services, social security, public investments in scientific research and
employment and so on. It should be a goal of
the labor movement gradually the share of
produced wealth that we have since the 80s
lost, recover.

77

purchasing power

In that context, we must also protect the index
and ward off any attempt to manipulate the index and
slow down. We want to return to "normal" index.
We can see the prices of basic commodities (such as food, energy, rent ...) not just leave it to the
laws of the free market. Especially because the index only
very partially follow the price evolution of those commodities. They should be checked to prevent impoverished families. A system shall be
of maximum prices come as they used yet
has existed for the bread.
Employees need their share of annual productivity, making them produce more wealth
in the same time period, can claim. They must be free
negotiate collective wage increases without the government intervening there.
To avoid excessive wage differences and to bring working people out of poverty, the minimum wage should be 60% of the average gross wage amount.
We also want a maximum wage for managers
public authorities or companies in which a government is the majority shareholder. That allowed
are up to five times higher than the lowest wage in
Company.
Narrowing the gender pay gap
and women should belong to the government's priorities. To eliminate the pay gap we want
raising the minimum wage and the pay and leave arrangements (maternity leave, maternity and paternity leave, credit hours) improve the regulation, so that
There is less discrimination. We want also differ
Reducing by part-time work, especially where women
have to deal with, no more encouraging. We
buy flexible employment contracts and we replace additional working hours by regular overtime.

The proposals of the PTB +
1. Protect the index. Recovery from the "normal"
and elimination of the health index. The
fuel prices should again be included in the index basket.

2. Monitoring the commodity prices
(food, energy, rent ...). Introduction of a price ceiling.

3. Repeal of laws and decrees the
organize wage freeze (the 1996 Act

78

wage moderation and the Royal Decree of April 28, 2013, the maximum wage margin committing to 0%). Trade Union Freedom
power relationships to build and to negotiate with a view to obtaining interprofessional
wage increases.

4. Raising the minimum wage to 60%
the average gross wage.

5. Introduction of a maximum wage in all public services and companies in which the government is a majority shareholder, equal to five times the maximum
minimum wage in that business.

6. No more reduction of employers' social contributions and no new tax gifts.
7. Abolition of the wage differences between men and women:
- Wage Regulations in the private modeled
public enterprises with the aim of reducing the pay gap between men and women.
- No more encouragement of part-time work.

Extra hours replaced by overtime, abolition of flexible labor contracts.

education

GoLeft # 12: Education against inequality
The election survey by the WPB
18% of respondents checked "education" in the top three of the issues that we must address first.
Question: "How to achieve a secondary education and social inequality
decreases? "
Answer: 38% see this as a priority, "smaller classes and free school aid"
32% want priority "free education".

Findings
A. Our education: champion in inequality.
For decades, Belgium is one of the frontrunners
in the international PISA-test on the quality of the
education. Flanders scores very well in mathematics
and languages: it is twice champion. But Flemish
education is according to the PISA study also up
the most unequal education systems in Europe.
Of all the countries and regions that are involved in the study, 63 in total, have according to the PISA study, the immigrant students in Flanders
most disadvantaged in the native students.
The early breakdown at the age of 12
in hierarchical study and teaching methods
(ASO, TSO, BSO) makes for a great social segregation. At the age of 15 years is three-quarters of the children from the richest 10% of families in the ASO. But only
One child in seven from the group of the 10% poorest families,
is in the ASO.

Two. There is a shortage of places and teachers.
About six years Antwerp will be 9500 additional children count
between the ages of 2.5 and 11 years. But the city administration of Mayor De Wever announced
urban education its share of the necessary additional capacity will be realized. The city and
Flemish government to play here passing the buck.

In Brussels, the number of pupils in primary and
secondary education between 2010 and 2020 increased by 29 500 and 12 500 respectively. Additional capacity
there are high pressing than in Antwerp. But one
solution is even more difficult because Flemish and francophone governments and parties each other endlessly hot
potato dumps it through communitising
of education.
Besides a shortage of schools, a shortage
teachers, because many novice
teachers within five years of teaching
abandoned. A previous government proposed a
replacement pool of teachers. For the sake of
myopic savings, the positive
measure abolished. Minister Smet abolished
mentor hours out which schools their incipient
teachers could accompany.
Was the federal government responsible for education, then
parties would like N-VA and Vlaams Belang and their
mouthpieces in the media have invectives deficit to denounce the gross negligence of the government. But since a quarter century, the Flemish government
responsible for education. And the government assume its
responsibility not to ensure that each
child the years to find a place in a school,
with a skilled teacher for the class.

79

education

Three. The quality of education is at risk.
Our teaching large gaps and are there any
Students victim.
Firstly, provides us with education "technological illiteracy" off. Only a minority of pupils
the TSO is a discipline in which contact
is provided with a wide range of applied
science and technology. Both the ASO, where
technological education is largely limited
up to the first degree, as in the BSO and in most
study of TSO, where technological
training is limited to a narrow specialization, abandoned
Most pupils in compulsory education as technological illiterates. Except in the scientific study of the ASO and TSO
leads to the formation in science rarely
out on a thorough understanding of a practical initiation
in techniques.
Second, usually lacking a critical and scientific view of the world. All sorts of investigations
show that the students in compulsory education
(and in higher education) are barely formed
to critical citizens the world in which they live, to understand.
The central poll by the Ministry of Education
(in 2011) around "world orientation" among pupils of the
sixth grade in the Flemish primary education indicated
that there are many gaps exist and that the learning outcomes
often can not be achieved.
The research on citizenship, conducted under
led by Professor Mark Elchardus of VUB, gave
that Flemish pupils bottom dangle terms
views and values ​​of discrimination, racism and so on.
It raises a number of problems in teacher training. A study by the Catholic University
Limburg (in 2012) to 1000 students of the third year
Flemish teacher training delivered next
disturbing figures: more than 60% recognize the
Eurozone countries are not on the map; 30% know
not the Flemish Minister-President Kris Peeters is; 25%
thinks the PS is in the Flemish government; nearly 30%
US does not recognize on a map; Recognizes 20%
Nelson Mandela not; 45% do not know what inflation.

Four. Education is becoming more expensive.
Research HIVA (KU Leuven) shows that a
year pre-school costs 300 euro for parents.
In elementary school which fluctuates between 336 and 492
euro, with the final school signed the
is most expensive. Once in secondary education there is a substantial difference in tuition per year
and per direction. Especially in disciplines that require the purchase of certain tools and materials,
The bill will advance rapidly. 6th year ASO costs an average of 1278 euros, 1346 euros TSO and BSO 1581 euros.
Students living in digs in higher education costs soon
12.450 euros.

80

These financial barriers make things more difficult. Lives today 12.3% of the Belgian youth without a job,
without qualification and without training. In the first year
higher education manages 57.5% of students
not for the exams. Because the costs are so high,
you think twice before you post resumes.

Five. The structural underfunding of us
education.
When it took office in 2009, the Flemish government
in education made a catalog of savings of 140 million euros per year. The
operational resources for schools were only partially indexed.
In the autumn of 2012 did the government Peeters
return of 1% on the payroll of the Flemish
officials penetrations. The measure would affect all Flemish teachers. After negotiations with the
unions pay cuts was replaced by a
surrender to the CAO. In 2014 and 2015 the Flemish teachers will receive less holiday pay.
For many years there was a structural underfunding of
education. In higher education, the number of
students standing, but relatively speaking, there are fewer and fewer resources. There is no money for investments in infrastructure. Result: lack of space in classrooms and auditoriums, lack of quality public
student rooms, a rickety infrastructure ...
Moreover, professors are encouraged to
more to "produce". Takes the pressure for publications
up, the quality of education has to give.
The underfunding spends most settings
a precarious state. They are urged to seek solutions on the private market. Unprofitable
directions are discharged the same ... Each people must pay the bill.

Six. Private penetrates ever deeper into the
higher education and scientific research
Private plays an increasingly direct
role in our higher education, and that's more than just
the privatization of certain services (restaurants,
courses ...).
Because the role of the private becomes more important, losing programs that are not economically viable to
interest. The independence of the investigation also
is jeopardized by the involvement of private companies. There is the scarce resources less
space for fundamental research. Einstein and Kant
today would not find a place at university.

education

contributed to by the free choice of school. We must reverse this logic and to focus on better
cooperation between schools and offer everyone a quality school.

The vision of the PTB +
In the fifth year of secondary education in Flanders, one more than a third of pupils or more years of school backwardness. One in five young teachers hold it a day within five years.
For all these problems, the politicians have little
interest. High time for the business to run.
We want a school that goes against inequality and
Everyone strives to provide quality education.
It is not normal children so early, at the age of twelve, let determine their future. The selection is
After all strongly influenced by social background
the youth. Finland is also a champion in the Pisa test. But the Finnish education scored better than the
Flemish education for the average performance of
The students. Moreover, the differences between the
schools are much smaller. The schools are also socially
more mixed. The school results are much less
determined by the socio-economic origin of the
student. For a democratic education reform
which reduces the social segregation and inequality,
The Finnish education system can inspire us. There
students follow a broadly common curriculum until the age of 16 years. Only after
The student chooses a course that prepares
higher education or a vocational qualification. In Finland, students basically go to a close
Situated school assigned by the municipality. 99% of schools in Finland, the municipality
as the organizing authority. No church withdraws
adhere to its social responsibility to all children
to guarantee equal opportunities at school.
Then we find that the purpose of education should
that all students succeed. We are in need of
smaller classes where better supervision possible,
with special support for pupils with learning difficulties. In some cases it is necessary
- as in Finland - a second teacher in the
to convert class. That way it can sit remain strong
limit, without leveling down. That
is accompanied by a strengthening of teacher training. In Finland, most teachers have a
Master's degree followed by five years.
To combat social inequality should mean free education in primary and secondary education. And students should be much easier
move on to higher education.
In Belgium, the inequality is reinforced by the
Competition between the educational networks and the dualisation between elite schools and rest schools. This is in

The school must not only have to learn a trade.
Education should contribute to a balanced and
general development. A development of head,

heart and hands, as it were. Technical, scientific, intellectual, cultural and sporting.
To prepare for such young people to participate in
The society. This also implies: critical and
have sufficient insight to understand society. And then the head, heart and hands to use
to make it a more just society.
To fulfill all these challenges, there must be a
much wider range of beneficiaries of education:
at least 7% of GDP. Education must be a priority
be from the government.

The proposals of the PTB +
1. We want a quality education that
inequality fights.
Smaller classes. Classes of maximum 15 students
until the third grade. After that classes with a maximum of
20 students.
No early selection. A common
trunk to 16 years is a tool for inequality
combat. Only after a (largely) common core curriculum of ten years the student chooses a
course that prepares for higher education or
a professional qualification. In this common
tribe is on general and technical education, and not just one of them. The idea is to form young people broad and critical to their role
in to record the society. This common core is also linked to better
guidance of the students so that everyone on a
more diversified way is followed.
Education should be truly free in primary and
secondary education. All teaching materials and mandatory
activities in compulsory education should be free.
Even healthy meals and before or after school child care should be free of charge.

We strive for an enrollment policy that
promotes social mix in all schools and for

guarantees each student a place in an easily
accessible and socially mixed school.

2. We want a place for everyone. It should be
done with the negligent and the ostrich

81

education

gelpolitiek of the various governments. They need everything
in the effort to anywhere, for each child, adequate
school capacity to provide. To do this is of essential
important that the schools remain public property. The
state is therefore responsible for the funding
new school buildings.

3. We want to make a success of all students.
- Special support for pupils
learning difficulties. We strive for quick remediation, supported by sufficient teachers and
specialized staff, for students at risk
to quit, for students with learning and
learning disabilities. In some cases, it is necessary to
- As in Finland - a second teacher in the classroom
put. That way it can be reduced without repeating a leveling down.
- Obligation School from the age of 3 years.
- Strengthening of teacher training.
- Improve framework and methodology. There
More needs to be invested in the framework,
both in compulsory education and in higher education. Additional classes methodology should be introduced in the first year of higher education. Learning to learn as it were. There must be a specific framework for new students. Therefore, there is more
money needed to monitor ate so also active
able to respond to the non-success of students. They
should have the possibility to the students
go instead of waiting until coming to them
forward. That also translates into recruiting
new staff.
- The courses must in higher education

online and thus are available for free and do
from the beginning of the semester.

4. The study in higher education should go down.
- Raise all income limits in the student finance system, including those to be considered for
a maximum grant. At least one third of the students should be able to enjoy a scholarship. Reduce red tape by granting
automate a scholarship. So everyone gets out there
entitled, actually a scholarship.
- Increase the scholarship amounts so that they cover all study-related expenses. Make the scholarships prosperity fix and adjust automatically to an increase
of the study. Enter therefore regularly
study measurement.
- Acquire step by step registration fees in higher
education off.
- The federal state and the regions have to invest in the construction and management of quality
Students stay.
- Set a single lease per city.
- Deliver all students and young people up to 26 years
public transport card (OV card) for all networks (the
Line, STIB, SNCB). Promotes sustainable mobility in the
students, keeping the price of this public transport map layer, demand
no more than a minimal administrative cost.

82

- Add a maximum invoice (cost ceiling or
maximum price per credit) for program-specific costs and study.

5. We want a school which is part of the
Nearby, a community school.
Take the learning and development of children
as there is a stronger link between various schools
and through collaboration with community partners (parents,
library, basic education, community services, community, social, cultural, artistic, sporting
associations ...). The school must be a place that is accessible to local residents. This entails
with longer opening hours, making available
the infrastructure and so forth.

6. We want cooperation between the educational networks
The competition between the networks has to give
cooperation in the interest of all pupils
employees. In time, we strive for a single
public educational network.

7. We want bilingual education in Brussels.
The existence of French-speaking and Dutch-language education in the same territory adjacent sharpens
more competition. Bilingualism is fundamental
who lives in Brussels. It will be the understanding and respect
foster inter-community. Also, for the
vast majority of the jobs you have in Brussels
are bilingual. Therefore, we believe that there should be for the schools in Brussels a single competent authority.
Some of the lessons to be taught in French and partly in Dutch, and that for all
students. In order to make immersion-education possible
The appropriate teaching methods should be developed.

8. We want herfederalisering of education.
The federalisation of education has created a gap between Dutch- and French-language education, both as regards the funds as on pupil performance. In a small country like Belgium is
appropriate level for most policy matters
the national level. Then we can education
organize efficient. The implementation of that education can be decentralized to the
municipalities and possibly the regions. For a limited number of tasks is a different approach depending on the
language is necessary.

9. The refinancing of education is necessary.
We advocate for raising the education budget
in our country to the level of 1980: 7% of GDP.
In the short term, we want to enter the millionaire's tax
which 8 billion could muster. Of this, EUR 1.6 billion going to education: 1 billion for 25 000
additional teachers, especially in primary education; 300
million for school construction and 300 million for the

education

Higher education. In addition, 400 million would go towards scientific research.
What the school building concerned, we are against
the costly "PPP" (public private partnership). With the
millionaire's tax, we would annually 300 million
invest in school buildings for Flemish and French-language education. That equates to 45 schools per year.

83

gender

GoLeft # 13: Gender equality on the agenda
put

Findings
A. There is a structural imbalance between
women and men.
Despite many decades of struggle for equality between women and men in many areas still far away.
The crisis itself, but also take crisis measures
women hard and they widen the gap. The traditional
roles of husband and wife is still apparent in the Belgian households.
In times of crisis experience conservative mindsets an ascent, they take women's rights acquired
on the grain.

Two. Part-time work, flexi-jobs, a pay gap
22%: discrimination against women in employment.
More than a third of women work part-time.
Many jobs in industries such as distribution are basically
increasing part-time because the employer in this way
peak times will catch and greater flexibility
want to ask. Employers expect more overtime,
differentiated hours and so on. The government pours that, even in
Laws such as the annualisation of overtime.
Occupations with low wages such as the elderly and family services, cashiers, and reception staff are a
largely filled by women. The families and the elderly women work an average of seven against one man. Also in the socio-cultural sector and the
retail, sectors with relatively low wages, is more
than half of the worker woman.
The government and the healthcare sector are good for many female employment. Previously they were guaranteed
stable jobs. With the crisis perish government jobs. As women's access to the labor market will come under pressure.

84

The savings in health care have a specific
impact on women. In this feminine sector working conditions deteriorate rapidly
and increase flexibility. The care leads underneath and
access to such care is more expensive, with too little
shelters for the elderly, handicapped, sick,
and so on. That has an impact on women:
it leads to career breaks to care reasons.
The workload is one of them part-time, flexible
contracts. Many jobs for women and more
more precarious: they are often mini-jobs, flexi-jobs or homework, with low wages.
Part-time work yields less per hour. Full-time workers are much easier to qualify
for better paid jobs and often do not fill in his leadership or positions of responsibility by
part-time workers.
Women still perform the lion's share of
caring responsibilities in their families. About 80% of women
bears most responsibility for household tasks. Many women "choose" Therefore
part-time work, but in fact is the "freedom of choice" for
part-time work is often hard to find
Half of the women working part time part-time looks like the only way to make the combination work family. 20% of them would express a full-time job but finds it not. There's just
no work for anyone.
Women more likely than men to interrupt their careers through a variety of schemes and engaged. But this career breaks lead to "wage penalty" means both care reasons, employment reasons (such as unemployment) as "other reasons" result after re-entry
at a lower hourly rate.

gender

The result is discouraging. The wage difference (
"Wage gap") between women and men is 22%.
That is to say that women earn 22% less than
men.

Three. Childcare less accessible.
Europe states that care should be provided for
at least 33% of children under three years. Which
"Barcelona Norm" is ridiculously low. And yet Antwerp, with 25%, much lower. Genk gets 26% and
Vilvoorde 27%. There is thus in several places a
acute care shortage.
The problem also arises in the before and after school
reception and during the holidays.
The policy opts for more commercial initiatives.
The first objective then becomes profitable
develop activity in a market. Instead of a
more accessible and affordable child care would be
even end up with a very expensive cost. In some places, these prices increased for after-school care with 20% and more.
Unemployed women have them in some cities
cede precedence place for the children of working women. Not taken into account
that they have to apply for a job, and must be able to
today to accept a job tomorrow.

Four. Poverty is female, particularly single
mothers, unemployed and retired women
are victims of the government's measures.
In March 2012 the Feminist Socio-Economic Platform announced that the government action
greater would affect women than
for men because of the structural inequalities
the labor market and in society. The platform
drew attention to the reform measures in the
unemployment, such as the gradual reduction of benefits and reformed waiting benefits (integration benefits).
A study of the FGTB (2014) confirms this
prediction. The study shows that the limitation of the
involving payment in time (you lose your benefits
after 3 years) will affect mostly women. About 53,000
from January 1, 2015 people will lose their benefits. According to the study run 12 190 Flemish and 8000
Brussels people risk losing their benefits.
Two thirds of them are women.
The gradual decrease of the unemployment benefits also
affects women particularly hard. Namely, they are over-represented, both in the group of the long-term
as unemployed in the group of cohabitants
(one in two is unemployed woman living together). For
heads of families, including single mothers, drops,
with the rapid degression, the allowance per phase
12%. For cohabitants runs that drop to 40%.
Who then can not find work, eventually get a lump sum. Be so cohabiting largely

financially dependent on their parents or their partners. She
see their autonomy thereby mortgaged.
A number of part-time workers, mostly women, who receive a distribution of income, are at risk of losing this supplement.
The activation policy affects women extra. Unemployed risk being excluded from the right to
a benefit as a result of the stricter procedure
for the activation of job-seeking. So
today you have to accept a job tomorrow
within a radius of 60 km. Mothers have their
family adapt to such strict requirements, though the childcare scarce and expensive. Who insufficient evidence
able to show that they actively looking for work, lose her
unemployment benefits and must then at the CPAS
knock.
There is, in addition to the pay gap of 22%, a pension gap and the time (in February 2012), 23%. The average pension of a Belgian woman is 23
percent smaller than that of a man. Furthermore, women often make less claim the second and
third pension pillar and if it does it is, goes
about smaller amounts.
The pension of 59% of women is lower than
1000 Euros (versus 33% of men).
Those women have to survive on an income below the poverty line.
Pension rights would be based on
career, but many women have incomplete
career years. They interrupt their careers much
more than men, for example, to care for the
the parents or children to take on its own. Women
also overrepresented in the number of long-term
unemployed. It is therefore not easy for women a
full build careers.
A consequence of the limited possibilities for building up pension rights that women financially
are dependent on their husband and his pension. The reform of the pension system (a
non-full-time career is detrimental to the pension
a woman) sharpened problem.
Especially single mothers but also retired and unemployed women at high risk in the
poverty to end up. In 2011, in Flanders
the poverty of single parents with at least one dependent child 22.2%. They are a vulnerable group in our society.
The system of allowances is a key against
child poverty. The demerger and transfer them
to the states weakens the system.

Five. The right to abortion and contraceptives.
The right to abortion has been acquired today, but it
is again questioned by conservative forces. Vigilance is called for, it is about the right
self-determination of all women.

85

gender

In Wallonia, there are eight abortion centers in Flanders six.
That is not enough. Women need closer to home in a
abortion center can turn so that the front and aftercare
(more than in a hospital) can be guaranteed.
The government wants to save here while the numbers in cities like Antwerp and Brussels are just asking for additional
resources. To choose one in five women in Brussels
pregnancy for abortion. That is twice as much as
in Flanders and Wallonia. Expertise indicate
that lack of education plays a major role.
Many women do not find their way into the (expensive)
contraceptives. Women to get 21 pills
an additional discount. This makes for some pills
them free. But beyond that age comes the high price tag back.
Newcomer immigrants and undocumented women
find their way to difficult women-specific health screening, especially in monitoring
pregnancy, but also for abortion and contraceptives.

that 100 Belgian files checked,
only four resulted in an actual conviction.
Aid workers and judicial authorities also gain
dealing with honor killings, without requiring adequate
is help. This also applies to women who are victims of genital mutilation. There is practically no
scientific research and not global at all
policy in order to prevent these problems.
Violence against women is a barrier to achieving equality between men and women. It ensures that women of their economic,
social and political rights can not claim. The
taking a heavy toll, both individually and socially.

Six. There is a lot of violence against women.
Every day women are victims of psychological and /
or physical violence within the family, in a familiar
environment or on the street. Our country has three registered
rapes per day. So were more annually
thousands of rapes recorded in the period 2009-2011.
One in three women was ever forced into sexual relations. Nearly six in ten women were
once exposed to a form of serious sexual
violence. That pointed to a study by Amnesty International (in 2013) out.
The figures provide an alarming picture of a
society where sexual violence and warp
is imposition. In many cases, the perpetrator is a known
of the victim. A quarter of the women were
ever forced by a partner to have sex and also a
quarter of women ever in a public place
physically harassed. 7% of women were abused as minors.
Violence against women is a manifestation of unequal
power relationships, which by culture, religion, policy,
education, economy ... are maintained.
Since violence against women is still largely a taboo
is often prevails the law of silence. According to the safety monitor 90% of sexual offenses is
not indicated. Victims do not dare step
action to stop the violence. The step
for the victim to seek professional help
large, often through financial dependence on the
partner (a refuge, even with CAW's, costs 25 euros
per day), or by the lack of knowledge of the auxiliary structures.
Victims are often not heard. They must be starting a lawsuit many barriers
overcome, she experienced the trial not as a way
to treatment but to impotence. Research of
The London Metropolitan University (2009) pointed out

86

The vision of the PTB +
Government measures in the areas of unemployment, pensions, flexibility, statutes, wages, public services and so affect everyone, but
especially the women.
Conversely, the common struggle is for all
the proposals that we are on the last pages of this
scenario have named, in favor of
everyone, but especially women. But that
common struggle for social justice is not enough.
Although the equality between men and women is legally strides, yet there is still a lot
discrimination. The combination of family-work for
Many women increasingly difficult. In most families
the bulk of the household chores addition
always on the shoulders of the woman go. Women
often have a whole day's work when ready
they come home from work.
Belgium has to pass a long way, but
path is blocked by the policy. That is not
wake of the lack of childcare or the
precarious where women often end up.
In the work-life balance are two elements
Distilling: we believe that everyone has the right to determine,
full-fledged, full-time work and that work and family can be combined.
We must take measures so that women do not
longer the lion's share of the household chores,
the developmental tasks of children and caring for
the old, sick parents have to bear. We think here
additional shelters for children in public
sector according to the principle 1 child = one place.

gender

Many families need domestic help,
hence the great success of the service. In
Instead of letting system in privately owned, with
bad association for the workers result, we opt here for a public service that provides
affordable services and proper statutes.
Instead of saving in the health sector needs
are heavily invested, so that the elderly, infirm
and people with disabilities get the care they deserve, and
no longer totally dependent on family solidarity
fall.
We call for the individualisation of the right to
unemployment and so we want the status of cohabitants away. Now people see their rights limited
by the simple fact that they live together or not
as partners, their benefits are much smaller and more
limited in time. However, they have their social
contribute fully paying into unemployment insurance.
Especially women are in this situation (one unemployed
woman on two opposite one unemployed man in three).
We are talking about an unjust scheme
the expense of the autonomy and the livelihoods of
many women.
We must work towards a gender-neutral pension system. Initially we aim for
Women can develop full-fledged careers. In
Moreover, we will defend the preservation of all
similar allegations in 2011: the equivalence of
third term unemployment, early retirement
for 60 years, and also for time credit and career breaks. And we support the extension of some assimilation. Thus, the initial pension should
up to the equivalent periods in too
expanded with bonus years for example, night work.
In divorce, women are especially financially
affected. Many divorced women (one in eight of
the divorced women) withdraw maintenance from
their ex. To prevent them from ending up in poverty get 7500 of them (and their children) with a
low income therefore an advance from the government.
Was a Maintenance Recovery Service (SECAL)
previously founded in 2002, but due to lack of
resources can not meet all the demands and needs this service. Calculated HIVA (KU Leuven)
(in 2012) to 12 000 families have little or no maintenance.
This DAVO service would anyone, children and
ex-spouses should be able to appeal to
is entitled to alimony. The DAVO service must
be completely free for all recipients
an alimony. It is not just a
measure against poverty of women and children,
but also provides a way to enforce a right
which is awarded by a court order.
Whether you want it or not, anywhere in the world there are abortions. In 2011 opted in Belgium 19 500 women

for abortion. There are many reasons for which
apply for ages, regardless of socioeconomic,
religious or cultural context of the woman who these
makes choice.
The reasons are diverse: a difficult situation, pregnancy resulting from rape, medical
difficulties which woman or child in danger ...

If abortion is illegal, women seek refuge in clandestine practices. Often when charlatans or swindlers
who still work with knitting needles or with dangerous
products. Therefore, we argue that abortion would be accessible to everyone, just as the right to contraceptives.
Every woman has to master his own body over.
Violence against women is to halt
protection and prevention needed. But we must also
Straighten the power imbalance in our society and at all levels. This means that we combat sexism both in the public sphere, as in the
workplace, in the media and so on.
There must be equality in wages but also in the
political and administrative representation of women. For the protection of women, there should be a
strong legal framework. There is much more research
needed about violence against women.
We strive for a truly equal society
men in women. On the way to gender equality
We strive for urgent reforms in the area
education, labor, justice and healthcare.

The proposals of the PTB +
1. Equal pay and working conditions.
For the right to full, stable and full-time
employment for all. Against increasing
flexibility and flexi-jobs and mini-jobs. We want a
strict control over the implementation of collective agreement 25 on Equal Remuneration. The measurement of the gender pay gap must annually
are repeated and they should be the starting point
a policy that eliminates the causes of the pay gap. We strive for positive action and a
gender-neutral job.

2. We promote the individualisation of
entitled to unemployment benefits. We like it
status of cohabiting out of here.

3. Towards a gender-neutral pension system. Retaining all existing assimilation. No reduction of equivalence for the third period
unemployment and early retirement for 60 years.

87

gender

No limitation of assimilation to one year
time credit and career breaks. The initial pension should go up by the equivalent
periods can be expanded with bonus years for heavy
(night) labor.

4. We would like additional childcare places in the public
sector for children, according to the principle first child
= One place. Extension of the right to parental leave for men and women, or to one year, with
exclusive compulsory reservation of 30 days
for men to as the sharing of family responsibilities
promoting at birth.
One child = one child. We want the split of the
child benefits and allowances reversed
revaloriseren.

5. Maintenance Recovery Service (SECAL)
must be at the service of all right
to maintenance, without limit as regards income.
6. The right to contraception and abortion.
- Women should have access to affordable
contraceptives. This is possible by the application of the
kiwi model.
- We will endeavor to expand the number of abortion centers and the greater involvement of primary care.
- We want to adjust the abortion legislation in the field
the legal time limit (16 to 18 weeks instead of 12 to
14 weeks).
- Redirect Duty doctors and hospitals if
they do not wish to perform the abortion. Like a
referral to other support services.
- We want information and awareness campaigns
about abortion, contraception and prenatal care, focusing
at target groups who have difficulty finding their way to the
regular care.
- Abortion and prenatal care should be considered
as "urgent medical assistance". They have a right, too
for undocumented women. That right should not
be linked to a possible return.

7. A low-threshold services in violence
against women is indispensable.
- We want more support and strengthen the
existing structures and initiatives: social houses,
shelters, general welfare centers,
remote host services.
- We want to improve the affordability of places in shelters for women.
- Additional training for police and lawyers is needed,
combined with a stronger cooperation with
assistance to any of the legal process
create suffering for women. Interrogation techniques should be woman-friendly because
they are the key to good information for the punishment of the offender.
- The establishment of trauma centers is a first here
step. A multidisciplinary trauma center for the

88

shelter and counseling for victims of sexual
violence in each of the city center offers first
assisting victims and unifies all forms of
assistance under one roof. It coordinates the support and training for the regular hulpverleningsnet outside the central cities.
- Women and girls at risk (honor killings, genital
mutilation ...) need more information, there
must be subsidized for professional development and training for all associations.
- Establish prevention from the male perspective is necessary. Beginning in education
and also in the rest of society, it is necessary
men talk to their responsibilities to eradicate violence against women.

health

GoLeft # 14: Health care should not
merchandise are
The election survey by the WPB
20% of respondents put health at the top 3. Health
is the fourth most important concern of the Belgians.

Findings
A. Medicines, hospitalization ... the patient pays too much himself.
The individual contribution of the patient increases to
23% of all health care spending, with an additional 5% in premiums for additional private insurance. As the Belgian paying 28% of all health care expenses from their own pockets. Average
is 666 euro per Belgian per year. Thus we stand
at the top in Europe.
The annual expenditure on medicines amounts
600 euros per inhabitant. Of these patients pay
itself 240 euros (or 40%) of non-reimbursed medicines and co-payment. That is the highest in Europe.
The recent national health survey indicates
that 14% of Belgians postpone medical care for financial reasons. In 1997 that figure was 8%.

Two. Being sick makes poor, and makes his arm
ill.
People with lower socioeconomic status
are most at risk of health problems.
They die earlier and are most in need
care. Our country men with low levels of education
7.5 years less. And women living without a diploma
18 years less healthy than women with a university degree.
Health care spending is concentrated
in a small proportion of the population. In Belgium use
10% of the population, especially the elderly and chronic

patients, 70% of health expenditure.
That is called an uneven or lopsided risks.
The aging is still rising sharply.

Three. One Belgian in five has no hospital and runs the risk of large debts
to pay his hospitalization.
Ereloon- and material supplements on the hospital bill or in ambulatory care are the main reason why patients should enter into debt for
their health care. For a colon surgery
you pay a ZNA Hospital (formerly PWC hospital
Antwerp), for example to Inami-rate 458 euros
pocket. With fee supplements adamant that 3343 is
euro.
The towering contribution for health care have today 8.2 million Belgians alongside their
Health Insurance For additional hospitalization. 5.4 million in the market for private insurance and 2.8 million via the funds. Only 20%
of Belgians have no further hospitalization.

Four. Drug prices are much
too high. The giants of the pharmaceutical industry continue to enrich themselves on the backs of our
social Security.
The high cost of medicinal products, in particular of
chronic pain killers and medicaments, is (in addition to the
supplements) The second major cost to the patient.

89

health

Gets a third of pharmacists in the big city
often patients across the floor who can not afford the co-payment for prescription drugs
and buy on credit.
Medicines - including generic - remain too
expensive, despite the measures taken by Minister Onkelinx
for antibiotics and antifungal agents, the pharmacist is obligated to the party the cheapest brand
supply, which branded the doctor prescribes.
Therefore let the expensive brands their prices lowered to
the level of (in Belgium overpriced) generics.
But no further.
As Diflucan by Pfizer fell from 126 euros per pack to 80 euros, the price of the generic, so that
Diflucan by the pharmacist may not be delivered.
But across the border in the Netherlands costs the same Diflucan (fluconazole), thanks to the kiwi system barely 5.5
euro. There is therefore still a huge margin.
In the Netherlands, private health insurers by
a procurement system prices do fall to a normal level. For many prescription
medicines we pay tens of millions of euros
too much, compared to the price that is in the Netherlands
stipulated. Because in the Netherlands contracts
done by private health insurers, as follows
the proceeds not to the patient but to the
shareholders. That problem is in New Sea
, Germany and the Scandinavian countries resolved
through public procurement and on public
organizing scale. That is the model we already kiwi
s proposals WPB specialist Dirk Van Duppen.
It is currently supported by the specialists
the fight against cancer. Prof. Propagate Cassiman and the experts of the Flemish League against Cancer
public procurement when two or more similar cancer drugs available
are. They take inspiration from the success of the public
tender in Belgium on the innovative vaccine
cervical cancer. That has caused the price in 2010
bags of 375 euros to 52 euros a course of vaccinations.
Therefore this vaccine is provided free to girls now
schools administered. Vaccination coverage has increased
from 20 to 88%, saving another 17 INAMI
million per year.

Five. The performance medicine leads to over-consumption and abuse.
Payment per performance gives the physician in prescribing tests and treatments a blank
check and lead to overconsumption and grossly
abuse. The Belgian Health Care Knowledge Centre published a study about the differences
per district for six surgeries.
Arthroscopy of the knee is three times as common in
the north of the country compared to the south.
While carotid tents twice as often implanted in the south. In Flanders and in the south
more people have a knee or hip replacement. The
east of the country has a third more caesarean sections and west. Removal of the uterus

90

forming a mosaic pattern, with a predominance in the
north. According to the study by The Knowledge
procedures which in many cases not appropriate, both in the
north and south. One explanation for the high
numbers would be due inter alia to "the density of the offer," "a supply-driven policy"
or "excessive enthusiasm among the surgeons."
In short, in both parts of a performance-based payment system dominated by greedy specialists. To
An estimated 30% of the radiographs and CT scans
unnecessary. This is not only financial abuse, but
because of the radiation damage is too bad for
the health of the patient.

Six. Excessive income for specialists.
The Belgian Health Care Knowledge Centre
did a study on the income of specialists
from their hospital work. The big earners are
kidney specialists. Every year they take an average of 640 000
euro gross home, after deduction of expenses
they pay to the hospital. Radiologists and clinical biologists extract respectively a gross wage of
460 000 and 430 000 euro. When those amounts are next
the fee also included the supplements but
not what the specialists in charge of their own private practice. Neurologists, paediatricians, psychiatrists and rheumatologists keep the least about. But their income
from hospital amounts still some 150,000
euro per year. Specialists who "operate machinery"
earn much more than those who "work with people."

Seven. Half-hearted measures and savings.
The actions of the Di Rupo government show that they
see where the problems lie. However, the measures
were half-hearted. The government dared challenge
with the interest groups (wealthy doctors, private insurance, the pharmaceutical lobby and the medical-industrial complex) not to. Therefore conducted minister
Onkelinx mandatory prescription by generic name only
for antibiotics and drugs against fungi.
Exorbitant prices for medicines, generic products
up to and including the cancer medication, therefore, continue to exist.
Onkelinx performs under pressure from Europe, the kiwi model
for hospitals, but for each hospital separately and
not national. Furthermore, the proceeds go
not to the patients.
Onkelinx prohibits fee supplements, but only
for doubles. For singles,
for day hospitalization and outpatient consultations
or care specialists excessive fees
questions remain. The problem with the two-speed medicine increases: delays and substandard
care for the non-affluent patients and speedy pass
luxury treatment for the private customer, on the private
consultation and in the private hospital rooms.

health

The vision of the PTB +
The right to health is much broader than just the
right to medical care. Prevention, in the
broad sense, is based on a sound social
security, a healthy environment, better protection at work and decent homes. If the government in these areas good care of its inhabitants,
that is the best preventive health care. Therefore
special attention is needed for a decent job for
everyone enough healthy and affordable housing,
good air quality, more public green, healthy
food for everyone, safe walking and biking trails,
and access to sport for all.
That is the prerequisite for good health. But we want to continue to promote accessible, public and quality health care.
Healthcare should not be a commodity. People
with the least resources have the greatest need
on health care. In a health care and
an insurance system which by profit
sent, they fall by the wayside. Equal access
and health care as a basic right presupposes solidarity.
We want the strongest shoulders on the revenue side
see carry the heaviest loads, each according to ability.
And on the expenditure side, we want a division of
resources available to those who need them most
has. Each according to his needs, not according to who it
Most can pay or most can earn. This requires transfers: from healthy to sick,
from active to inactive, from rich to poor and
from young to old.
Private insurance companies, for example, are
especially interested in healthy, active, rich and young patients. If you do not meet those conditions,
you're less interesting for them if they try
even to be ruled out.
There is scientific evidence that leads to commercialization
risk selection and exclusion, thus creating a dichotomy in care. Marketing also leads to costly
medicine with poor results: overconsumption
for those who can pay much and under treatment for
who is in financial difficulty. Finally, causes
marketing competition for the most affluent
and least needy patients to put on instead
of collaboration to everyone in the best way
help.
The community should be responsible for health care. She needs adequate funding for it
and have the guarantee that these resources are not
flow to the shareholders of the pharmaceutical industry.

The Di Rupo government has abandoned the annual
growth target of 4.5% in health care. However,
just in times of crisis and an aging population we need more
investing in universal health insurance. Then we can abolish the private hospitalization insurance. After all, 20% of Belgians do not have
such additional hospitalization, have already
people in vulnerable socio-economic conditions precisely the most in need of care.
With good public funding we can
health care loosen the grip of the pharmaceutical industry and of the profit hunting.
We advocate four levers against the waiting times and
the creep medicine, and against supplementitis
for high-quality and accessible health care for all:
1. Purchase the material in supplements and personal contributions
the hospital bill out, care for cheaper drugs by Kiwi model for medicines
and medical equipment.
2. Prohibit the fee supplements. Pay the doctors
with an annual salary in the university hospitals. Abolish the performance medicine.
3. The first line of health care should be free.
4. One common electronic medical record at all
doctors and health care providers.

The proposals of the PTB +
1. - Cheaper drugs by the introduction of the kiwi model.
- Removal of material and supplements
own contributions on the hospital bill, by
cheapening of medical equipment
thanks to the kiwi model.
- Kiwi model also apply ambulatory
drugs.
To reduce the cost of the drugs came
Dr. Dirk Van Duppen of Medicine for the People
in 2004 up with the kiwi model. That model is
taken from New Zealand. That will be the best
medicines launched a public tender. A full implementation of the kiwi model
can lead to a decrease in the price of drugs with
50 to 90%. INAMI spends 4 billion on
drugs. The patient pays out on top
pocket about 2.5 billion euros. Generalising
Kiwi model (for all medicines and patent
for medicines that are still under patent, but
which two or more equivalent alternatives
existence) brings at least 1.5 billion euros.

91

health

But this model is also applicable to hospitals. From
July 1, 2013 is the application of the model in all kiwi
Belgian hospitals fact: public contracts are legally binding for the purchase of medicines and medical equipment. The Federal
Health Care Knowledge Centre estimates that this
will provide a price drop to a third of the
material costs. This allows co-payments (70 million
euro) and supplements (65 million euros) to abolish the patient and on top of that 65 million
euro save it Inami.
Also, public procurement and materials
apparatus for medical imaging and in the laboratory, bringing tens of millions of euros.
But those hefty revenues now go not to the patient. They are used for the financing of hospitals. We want them to be used to relieve the patient's hospitalization bill considerably.
Currently public procurement are applied by hospital or hospital group. We want
the government for certain products and medicines suddenly apply a public tender on a national scale. This increases the bargaining power and makes for an even better prijsbedinging. The
reduces administrative efforts and allows
the overhead costs more efficiently.

2. Abolish the fee supplements. Pay the
specialists a good salary, as in the university hospitals. Abolish the performance medicine. No speedy pass in healthcare.
Doctors have the right to a decent basic income with
normal pension and social security,
like everyone else in this country. In addition, she added
be reimbursed for extra performance or for delivering outstanding quality. That system is required by law
required in the teaching hospitals. Professors
and academic specialists get a good salary
with full pension and social security.
She acceded to the convention are required and accordingly no
Questions fee supplements. They can be up to a
fifth of their time on privéraadplegingen in
private practice.
If this arrangement can for the professors of a tertiary care hospital, then they must also ordinary
Hospitals can. The private practice at home
limit there will be more space for consultations in the
ordinary polyclinics. Then the waiting lists
drastically reduced and patients can also affordable care quickly good help. If we
convention ring generalize fall fee supplements road.
As co-payments and supplements on fees and
medical material loss, additional hospitalization insurance is unnecessary.
The total amount of medical fees that Inami
paid in 2012 amounted to 7.3 billion euros. Thereof
by 1.1 billion euros to GPs and 6.2 billion

92

the specialists. Of these, an average of 40% remains in
the hospital. The specialists have thus 3.7 billion
home. Specialists with a fixed salary in a
University Hospital earn half to a quarter
of their colleagues in other hospitals. Through the
payment of university hospitals
generalize saves our health insurance 2 billion.
The abolition of the system of payment per service saves at least one third of the medical and technical achievements in the laboratories and in medical
imaging. Accounting for 0.8 billion euros on the 2.4
billion annually by our insurance
go to these studies.

3. Free primary health care. Consultations with the doctor must be free, either by
the flat rate system, either by generalising
the third payment system with elimination
the co-payment.
In the practices of Medicine for the People, we care for more than 25,000 patients in eleven multidisciplinary health centers free health care
provide. Every day we are confronted with
people who are looking for a general practitioner.
The WPB gives priority to primary care. The doctor knows the patient best. He/
it manages the medical file is confidential and is best placed for the patient if
necessary, refer you to a specialist.
We advocate the generalization of district health centers, along the lines of Medicine for the People,
a flat-rate system. We want a health center in each district, with free and quality care.
Belgium is one of the few European countries where the
Visiting the GP is not yet free. Free is not
free, but costly. Free medicine is, after all,
based on a pre-payment of social security contributions and tax money on health insurance.
General medicine costs INAMI 1 billion:
less than 5% of the total Inami-budget. That must
be doubled. A third-party payment system can be implemented immediately for all. Thereby int
GP directly to the health service and the patient need
not to shoot first and then to the health service
to draw a part of his payment. That system
significantly reduces the administrative burden and
lowers the entry barrier to the GP.

4. A unified national electronic health record (EHR).
Now every doctor his own EHR and is still there
no smooth exchange of medical information. In
some hospitals have even every specialist
EMD own, not by other colleagues within the same hospital is consulted. A unified
national EHR avoid duplication of studies, avoids
lost get medical information and allow
much more independent scientific research,
needs analysis, monitoring and planning.

participation

GoLeft # 15: Consultation
The election survey by the WPB
10% of respondents checked "democracy" and 9% "political culture"
in their top three of the issues that we must address first. With the question:

"How do politics tailored to the people?", 38% agreed with the statement: "Ministers closer to the people. Their wages may limit three times
as high as an average employee salary "and 32% defends". All
important decisions to submit to the people via referendum (pen
pensions, wage freeze European Convention ...). "

Findings
A. Those who govern us have the right
deprived decide on our budget and
on our social and economic policies.
Democracy was clearly not a priority for the Di Rupo government. Without a fight were the parties
in the Belgian, Flemish, Walloon and Brussels governments is an essential part of the democratic rights
off: the right to decide what happens to the revenue
and expenditure of the state happens.
According to the European VSCB or "Fiscal Compact", which
All parliaments have approved, the budget deficit should not exceed 0.5 percent of GDP
amount. And the public debt must not exceed 60
percent of the GDP, or should continuously
in the direction of which 60 percent decline.
Who should provide them? According to the liberal recipes that the European Union imposes on the Member States,
which mainly wage and welfare recipients. They have to surrender.
To make sure that Member States fulfill the conditions of their budgets, the EU put
Union, a number of mechanisms which require Member States to pursue a liberal policy and the grip
strengthening the Union's budgetary policy. So
In 2011 the six pack by the European Parliament
approved.

Member States should, on the basis of liberal guidelines
a stability plan with it reforms
and a budget estimate. If they do not abide by the rules
love, they get sanctions. The National
governments and parliaments have nothing more to say. They need the guidance of the EU Commission
perform.
EU recommendations are entirely employer colored signal "control" the Belgian wage norm "for", limit
wage negotiations at sectoral and company level,
only the wage indexation, reduce unemployment benefits over time, prevents people for their 65th
stop working…

Two. Civil society and trade unions in the
cast aside.
The European Union also took power switches
the facts the possibility for civil society and
especially for the trade unions to oppose
unacceptable measures. Thus recommends that the European
Commission on "measures to ensure the mechanisms
on wage formation and, if necessary, revise the degree of centralization of wage negotiations (...). "
The government followed this recommendation partly.
In Belgium the unions attach great importance to the
social dialogue. They make every two years appointments
with employers during free wage bargaining.

93

participation

That wage consultation, the government has eroded completely.
In 2013 and 2014, wages were not allowed to rise above the index. Also announced Elio Di Rupo to end 2012
the government's "law of 1996" that the wage norm
Moors, will adapt. The preliminary draft of this
new law (of March 22, 2013) will be a permanent
wage moderation and organize unions offside
put in interprofessional negotiations.
The design follows a structural mechanism in of
wage competition with neighboring countries and install a
system of severe penalties to avoid too
but would in one sector or company wage norm
be broken.
This law has not yet been voted on, is mainly
Due to the fear of social unrest. The adaptation of the 1996 Act excludes real negotiations
an interprofessional agreement out. Each intersectoral consultation is destroyed. The employees
will still only at the level of their enterprise
new benefits can obtain. And then quite
limited premiums for the achievement of certain objectives. Under pressure from the unions, partly
Due to some revelations about the
WPB, the government was obliged measure
to postpone until ... after the elections.

Three. Attack the government on our privacy.
The only privacy that remains intact: the corporate privacy, cuisine secrets of banks
and multinationals.
This government did not alter the control of
banks. Their balance sheets remain secret. It is the only
privacy that remains in our society. Meanwhile
each mail in our country, every text, every internet action
spied upon and tracked. Directly by the
NSA or indirectly via Belgacom. The parliament voted in
with the biggest ever direct attack on privacy
citizens in Belgium: Belgian "data retention"
imposes goes even beyond what Europe via Belgium
European Directive of 2006.
In barely two weeks and in full holiday period
the law by the House and Senate was hunted without
any serious debate. The ministers Vande Lanotte and
Turtelboom their bill even in the
Justice Committee have discussed, but only in the
Infrastructure and Finance committees. As if it
a technical issue would go, and not the privacy and fundamental freedoms of all citizens. The
law requires Internet providers and telecom carriers all identifications of all their users,
up to and including the subscriptions to their services, for
to keep indefinitely. All communications data must be kept twelve months. For example, the
communication of all citizens under the continuous control of the government.
It presents it as if the law is a response to
terrorism and new forms of cybercrime,
but the law shoot completely ignores that purpose. The
State security and military security agencies can
the stored data retrieval. Because their field
is so large, there is a danger that social and political

94

movements will be spied on, especially as
they revolt against the policies of the government or
of the European Union. So not only does the privacy
affected, but also the right to free speech,
freedom of association and freedom of the press. League
Human Rights spans a procedure for
the Constitutional Court. In Germany, 35 000
citizens challenged a similar law for
Constitutional Court. Successfully.
Meanwhile, thousands of cameras record our comings and goings
in public spaces fixed. The police want a camera so that your child can still nowhere unnoticed in Belgium
driving around. Every Belgian is in hundreds of databases.
It's an evolution toward Big Brother. Privacy is a
defense right of the citizen against unwarranted
government interference in his private life. Glass
government and glass enterprises are far away, but the
glass citizen is a hot reality. We live more and
more in a control state.

Four. Henceforth, any municipality may, at its
taste and preference limit the freedom of young people with GAS fines. A freedom restriction
also another depending on the discretion of
the sanctioning GAS officials, which not only
punish, but also another judge and beneficiary
his party. There is not here any separation of powers
Lake. Just about all youth and civil society in this country - there are 213 - asked together
Revise GAS legislation. But the government extended
the GAS fines still up to 14 years.

The vision of the PTB +
Democracy is - at best - been reduced to
a banal liberal market activity. People do not take
participate in the policy. They are not involved in policy choices. They are regarded as consumers
of the policy. The European coup downgrade
Now the Belgian member of parliament to
vacuous pumpjack. In this way we live and more
more in a "low-intensity democracy" which still
further weakened by the crisis.
When asked for your opinion on something of your daily life? When you have the right part
to take decisions on a social issue? Never, except once every four years.
We may then elect representatives
of the legislature which less and less in the pie
having crumble. Barely 5% of all Belgian
Laws today still comes from the parliament; 95%

participation

proposals, originating from the government. These proposals
are written in many cases of the directives
of the European Union.
It is the European Commission that reinforces the national budgets today, while the budget correctly
the democratic exercise that decides the basic policy orientations of a country. With the ratification of the European Fiscal Compact have our
Representatives mandate given to the
European Union for all major social and economic
decisions.
And who today leads the European Union? The decisions of the European Commission is always successful
lobbying in advance of major employers. In fact, it
tantamount to confiscation of the democratic process
in the period between elections. Worse, sometimes
exclaims moods of two or three years ago in
to impose certain anti-social measures
a large part of the population, however, rejects.

We want to fully defend human rights and
enforceable. We defend the first generation of human rights, the classic fundamental rights (the
right to free speech, freedom of association ...).
These rights are today often with the
trampled, mainly due to the breach of our
privacy and violation of trade union rights. But we are also defending the human rights of
the second generation, which after World War II
came into being: the social and collective rights
such as the right to work, to housing and education, on
a decent life. These rights are set
in the Belgian Constitution, but they are not enforceable. We endeavor to ensure that they are so. The right
labor is enshrined in the Constitution and in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights of
the United Nations in 1948. But in Belgium
that right today to almost 20% of the population
remember.

We want to reverse this logic. We advocate more
direct, more dynamic democracy, much more
Participation is directed. Therefore, we also need to
ensure that people living in social conditions
which make it possible to participate in this dynamic democratic. There is a constant interaction
needed between the people, the neighborhoods, the employees
in the business and political leaders. We
want more public participation. There must be debate about budgets. This is possible by presenting them
to organize the municipal councils or by a digital consultation.
The population must also have the right to self-laws
make. We want to present all important decisions to the people through referendum, pensions,
wage freeze European Convention so on.

We want people to get a better grip on their
living, working and living conditions. We want recognition for the position and the role of trade unions
and of society in general. We also want to
better protection for those who are committed to the
interests of the working people.
Half of the Belgian employees work in a
SME. For eight years the Belgian government refuses
Applying a European directive which makes union representation mandatory in every company
at least fifty employees, or its affiliates with
at least twenty employees. The Directive further state
that social elections also mandatory in those companies
should take place.

We need politicians who really express the will of the people. There is today only one worker as
Assemblywoman in parliament. The majority of MPs is a lawyer, lawyer, manager or professional politician. Their income is over
above the average of the population.
It is the way of life of people, which determines
how they think. Not vice versa. We see this in very
many politicians. If the political leaders there
keep in lifestyle that has many similarities
with that of the large employers, then will develop their interest inevitably also in that direction. It is difficult to understand that people
For example, have problems of their energy bill
to pay, if you have lost touch with the lake itself
real life. We therefore want to set a limit on
the salary of political office holders. In WPB valid
for all elected the internal rule that they live with
an income equivalent to the average wage
a worker. Why should make a political decision to 15,000 euros per month? Today there is a caste system is growing,
and a gap between the lifestyle of politicians and those of
ordinary mortals.

Media campaigns put the right to strike under pressure,
especially in the public sector. Right paints the
railway workers cease to insecurity and
among crew off as "kidnappers." The accident in
Buizingen in 2010 shows what insecurity and liberalization may lead. Strike is a fundamental right.
It is guaranteed by international treaties. As
workers in a company are unable to accept the conditions set by the pattern and no
agreement can be found on any other means
the strike that workers have then?
Civil society makes an important contribution to the
democracy. It offers people the chance to participate in society and in political decision-making. It keeps its finger on the pulse
of society. It may be new social
quickly bring issues on the political agenda. A
Democracy can not work without well-informed and responsible citizens and associations that help shape
to policy makers and society.
We all have the right information about us
to keep private life confidential. Our privacy
protected by Article 8 of the European Convention
of Human Rights. We all have the

95

participation

right to decide what we want and conscience
what not. The state has no right to privacy
to come sniffing people. However, today
are social actors kept in mind in the name of the fight against terrorism and cybercrime
and geficheerd. So not only does the privacy in the
hustle, but also the right to free expression,
freedom of association and freedom of the press.
International whistleblowers have shown up
which can cause derailments all this skullduggery. It is
high time the knob is turned back.
After the attacks of September 11 2001 in New York
surfaced kinds of "anti-terrorism laws" on. Those laws
use a wide definition of the term
"Terrorism" that they also social and anticapitalist
movements aim simply to proclaim an opinion or for organizing a
collective action. The right to freedom of expression and
freedom of association must - except for racist organizations - are guaranteed. They should not
by all sorts of laws, permits and GAS Regulations are eroded.

5. The elections must be fully proportional and the electoral threshold of five percent must
be abolished. All opinions must be discussed
come. Equal access to the media for all parties
during elections.

6. We want to see better protection for trade union rights.
- With better and appropriate legal protection
of union representatives by a change in the law of March 19th, 1991 so that a shop steward
it wants, can enforce his reintegration into the company.
- We want union representation in the (larger)
SMEs, such as the European Union demands.
- No intervention of courts in social conflicts.
- No minimum services or in the anti-strike rules
public sector.
- No bosses' lockout to break strikes.
- Freedom of bargaining for unions.
We want the working class over again
can negotiate pay and working conditions.
We want the wage freeze immediately
offset. We want the abolition of the law
of 1996 on competitiveness.

7. Public financing of NGOs and civil society organizations. Stop the cuts and restrictions.

The proposals of the PTB +
1. Ministers should be closer to the population
stand. Their wages may limit three times
high as an average employee salary. We
MPs do not want a paycheck from
ten thousand euros per month. They need a modal
income and have really live among people.

9. Freedom of association and the right to freedom of expression through action, flyers, social media etc. may
not be eroded by various laws, permits and GAS regulations. We want the withdrawal

2. The MPs will sufficient time
for covering the participation of people from the neighborhoods and businesses, so as a broad

We also want to abolish the "anti-terrorism laws" fundamental rights and freedoms
truncate.

participation of society in the policy choices
to guarantee. It would be good if Representatives are removable, as they demonstrate
personal gain, corruption or bureaucracy. Who makes laws about that also accountable to the
people.

3. We want to bring the important decisions to the people through referendum. As
hundred thousand inhabitants demand a referendum,
it should be us. We must through referendum
also laws that have already voted may undo
make.

4. We want to abolish the cabinets. Preliminary work should be another task
civil servants. More resources for the MPs.

96

8. Respect the European Convention on Human Rights
from the human. Respect the privacy. The law Vande
Lanotte-Turtelboom associated with data retention should be repealed.

the GAS Act.

unit

GoLeft # 16: Unity in the new Belgium
The election survey by the WPB
81% of respondents say they will totally or tend to agree with the
thesis: "Belgium should remain one. Split is not in favor of the population and will be costly. "

Findings
A. Unemployment, family allowances, health care, the state reform is harmful
for our social security.
After more than 500 days crisis and the removal of
N-VA came out of the negotiations in October 2011
a community agreement from the bus. But the solutions are bad.
In 2015, 20 billion euros of new powers to the Regions and Communities
gone. Also in the social security system. The exchange
social competence accounts for 15% of the
current budget. Which is more concerned about the labor market (4.3 billion), health care (4.2
billion), the personal assistance policies with a
disability, hospital policies, the elderly, the
mental health and prevention.
But also and above all family policy (6 billion)
include the separation of the child, the birth grant and the adoption fee. They are now
not the same in the north and south of
the country.
The agreement provides, however, that allowances should continue to exist. That's in the Constitution. Its amounts will "not significantly lower" may be
than today and there is a transition period
ten years to any negative impact on
catch. But chances are that the child benefits
will fall in Wallonia and Brussels. Especially in Brussels,
with rapid population growth, there may be severe
problems arise. One child is in danger
in terms of rights no longer be equal to the other
child.

The federal National Employment Office (RVA)
an empty box, as is now the regions determine not only what a "suitable job" is,
they sanction the unemployed, via the VDAB, Forem
and Actiris. If the regions other sanctions
run, as they have other legislation for temporary work
handle, then we no longer have the same social
security for the whole country. The Regions may
establish rules concerning reduction
social security contributions for employers. If they follow other programs for re-employment and burden reduction, then in the long run labor costs
no longer the same and are a means to implement competition.
The Community shall be authorized to determine the accreditation standards of hospital and the
programming, accreditation standards and (partially)
the (care) funding for nursing homes. Again, there is a great danger to health with a
two speeds.

Two. Further regionalization of social relations: a danger for our wages.
Now the states are responsible for the labor market (the target group policy for difficult groups
helping to work, the control of the unemployed ...) and for social protection, the pressure
regionalization of social relations far. That
of course, is a major threat to the trade union
unit. And that's just what the bosses express
pursues.

97

unit

With regionalised labor market, wage competition will increase in own country: a Walloon
employee earns now average less than 8%
Flemish. If the difference is even greater, come
Also, the Flemish wages under pressure. Flemish Minister President Peeters (former Unizo) complained that he "did not grip
On the wages. " The gate is now open for
New Community fight: the division of the wage policy and thus social security. As a result: a
spiral down the charges for patrons
and for the achievements of the working people.
Today the patrons trying to block wages
by comparing them with those of our neighbors; tomorrow
they will try that the wages of Wallonia,
Brussels and Flemish workers against each other to
play.

Three. An attack on the society and on the
surveillance of trade unions on social security.
The right-wing parties want to reform access to the trade unions, mutual societies and the
ward organizations in the fight against poverty
management and consultative bodies of the NEO, health insurance and pensions. That is one of the motives behind the attacks on the Christian Labour Movement.
Trade unions and other institutions are still some dam and countervailing power against neoliberal vision
also pensions and health care will fully
privatize hunting unemployed will increase yet
and flexible jobs to generalize. The only society which parties like the N-VA still want is a
midfield with only organizations with
engage in some form of charity; the
local, voluntary and selfless dedication. Not the union
or the National Health Service, although the largest volunteer organizations are very much local, selfless dedication,
in corporations and at municipal or regional level. But
which can protest and who are sometimes the
feet, for example in the marketing of health care is thereby so priceless that you
her only handle with private insurance.

Four. State reform, the situation is more opaque, complex and costly.
Not because of good management but from nationalism
one has to divide things functioned well. Child allowance, NEO and the health insurance works excellently, and yet they want them
split. The European Forum for Social Security
(ISSA) in 2013 gave a prize to the National
Child Benefit for Employees (RKW) and the National Employment Office (RVA). The European
Forum distinguished project quality presented by the RKW, paying 3.7 billion euros annually without problems for 2.1 million children
and young people in 1.2 million households. The system
will probably disappear after defederalisation
of the child. In a preparatory commission
for the state reform experts came off

98

put that in the area of ​​family allowances everything
working properly. Everything is paid correctly and no
complains. But what it will be now, nobody knows.
In health care, the great danger that all
will be still more complicated. Health management
is already divided and has no less than eight ministers. The sixth state reform which will
administrative and institutional fragmentation only
but bigger.

Five. The split will lead to major cuts.
The transferred funds (and especially those
for the elderly) are not sufficient to meet the needs
and answer needs. Will you go the money
get in the states?
The transfer of the child and of a part
of, for example, the healthcare people will,
offer no added value. Instead, they will likely result in a reduction of the rights
rightholders. As with the previous state reforms - see what has happened in education
1990s - will the transfer of powers
submit to austerity in silence by
perform. While it claims to change the rules,
prune it in the resources.

Six. The division leads to tax competition
between the Regions; which is competitive federalism.
The Finance regulates the distribution of tax revenues between the Federal Government and the Regions and Communities and what those governments there
allowed to participate. Now the regions will themselves may
decide 10.7 billion in personal income, which is about 50% of their own income,
doubling. There is also more than 1 billion
euros in fiscal spending regionalized, such as the
tax on home ownership.
The regions get through the Finance regulatory power to tax in
personal income. They will soon have a
the same size, or even larger budget than the federal government. And we are in a competitive federalism.
Regions can now enter different tax rates and they have the right surcharges
lift. In this way, tax competition
introduced.

unit

The vision of the PTB +
The sixth state reform is a weapon to make stronger the antisocial European directives
by competition between the Regions, by the neo-liberal interpretation of the new powers, the division and weakening of trade unions and social
relationships, and the weakening of civil society.
If the strong civil society disappear
the management boards of major social institutions,
be paid to the social contributions of the working
people, their place will then be occupied by
the lobbies of private players in the healthcare market, employment, retirement.
They can then, as at European level, on their own
size pieces of legislation devised for the regional governments
write.
We are waging a battle against the principle (further)
split, but they are also vigilant for today
way split responsibilities will be completed. For what Flanders, Brussels and Wallonia themselves do, they often do not get better, at least not
For the man in the street. You only have to look at
waiting lists for the disabled, child care, the problems of education and social
housing.
The budget controls in the regions will be more anti-social because the regions lack the resources
get their new powers. They will
therefore try to save. They promised them
to work on the set by the European Union
savings. The municipalities are already the biggest victims.
A certain decentralization to the regions more responsive to the socio-economic reality than
the division into Communities, the nationalism
and creates dissension. But the current Belgian federalism is a federalism competition between the regions: about who has the lowest taxes on corporate profits, the cheapest industrial sites, the lowest social security contributions, the less stringent environmental standards
or who suspends most unemployed. It is then
complemented by "competitive cooperation": we divide, and then we work together to better the
borders, to conduct the hunt for the unemployed.
The sixth state reform is merely a truce. It forms a tangle that the structures of the

is opaque, making complex and costly. She
prepares for a seventh state reform. The separatists will demonstrate very quickly that this life
people do not easier. But they will which
opacity seize more splitting
requirements and more solidarity to reduce.

We urgently need to follow a different logic.
We do not want a new state that leads to
a larger split; we do not want endless discussions. Both north and south as well as in
The capital is the population not asking. As
there institutional reforms are needed, they should
they are democratic and based on solidarity. The
cleavage of the child benefit funds and the NEO shows
How absurd is the current reform. These institutions
gain international recognition. They show that federal
Institutions can function very well. If one
they split, there is a hidden agenda behind with
efficiency and better alignment with regional specific
situations have nothing to do.
We have the old solidarity mechanisms also
Today necessary. We have the development of new
solidarity mechanisms are needed: for example in the
education, Brussels. This is only possible in a unified,
democratic Belgium, with central government
guarantees the equality of all people.
Therefore they must be responsible for justice, labor law and labor relations, social security,
wage policy and price policy, and personal income
corporate, health policy, standards
and funding for education. The major political
and economic issues within the federal
competence. Where regionalization leads to inefficiency,
they must be undone. That is the case
for transportation, traffic, road infrastructure,
housing, scientific research ... Less waste, more powers at national level
and less structures that encourage the community unrest that should be the spirit of the reforms.
Brussels is the Achilles heel of the nationalists. She
have no realistic solution. The fight against
introduction of two types of Brussels in terms of
social security and against the foreseeable chaos
which will lead to a split, can help
set separatism for what it really is:
an apartheid regime that divides and impoverishes the people and the government is inefficient.
That is why we support all measures for more
cooperation between regions, for instance in the field
transportation planning, employment and a range of other common items.
Mobility for Brussels public transport
required. The development of this network now falls under the jurisdiction of four governments: federal, Flemish, Walloon and the Brussels Region. Which
construction is so cumbersome that few happening.
That problem also arises for the employment services. A development plan must be in Brussels and the outskirts, a policy level
of the major socio-economic space. And then the
expansion of the bilingual region of Brussels ultimately the only rational solution.
In this new bilingual Brussels must deployment
of all language groups are respected. The two-

99

unit

multilingualism in public administration must then
strictly adhered to. Will require extensive Brussels region
the ratio of Dutch-French speakers are balanced. This will ensure a better democratic representation of Dutch speakers,
now in Brussels are a small minority. A
joint board is in the new Region rational,
realistic and democratic option. Such a region can
all discrimination, harassment and resolute haarklieverijen
approaches.
Brussels may be the solution, a laboratory
for the new Belgium. A multinational city. In the
education raise important initiatives to
promoting bilingualism.
Brussels, stabbing the connection between the communities can contribute to a better mutual understanding.
Brussels, however, the capital of Europe, can be an excellent platform for exchange on an equal footing, between French and Dutch speakers.
The electoral system is in need of reform. The current system leads to separatism and nationalistic
auction. Belgium is perhaps the only country in the world
Ministers does not have to for part of the voters
answer. Flemish ministers in the federal government are not elected by French voters, and
vice versa. So they are always problems in the footwear
the other language group slide. That's why
for federal elections and a national constituency necessary to supplement the provincial constituencies.

tional agreement, collective agreements
labor law and national competences need
remain. Inter-professional and sectoral negotiations should remain at national level. No regionalization of the social dialogue.

4. Trade unions and mutual insurance companies must present
remain in the management bodies of all sectors
social security.
5. A federal electoral district, next to the provincial constituencies. A portion of the seats of the Chamber would
be assigned henceforth elected to whom
in a constituency covering the whole country.

6. To improve relations in Belgium: more and better language teaching. There should be more
resources are for language teaching in schools, and
for free language courses for adults.

7. For a bilingual Brussels-Capital
Region as a bridge between different communities of the country. Refinancing of federal
state.

8. Bilingual education in Brussels. The Brussels
schools need under a single governance body
fall. To all the students some of the must
Classes are taught in French and another part in Dutch. Appropriate pedagogical methods to be used for success
the immersion education.

9. A national mobility for which the regions work together, especially in and around Brussels. Development of public transport.

The proposals of the PTB +
1. No competition and no differences in rights between the Regions and Communities:
a child is like a child, an unemployed
worker is equal to an unemployed worker. Equal rules and equal rights. Need allowances
in all regions remain at the same level. For the
Unemployment benefits should be a joint there
policy may be maintained. No differences in sanctions in the Regions.

2. Retention of social security at federal
level, both for unemployment benefits,
health and disability insurance and pensions. The federal government must guarantee the
equality of all citizens and for the mutual
solidarity.

3. No wage competition between workers
from the various Regions. The interprofessio-

100

10. The areas which led to regionalization
has to inefficiency must be re-federalized: transportation, housing policy, the
road infrastructure, scientific research ...
There homogeneous powers should come to this
areas at central level.

peace

GoLeft # 17: Securing Peace

Findings
One: Our country carries with it war in Afghanistan.
With NATO troops, our country for twelve years
part in the occupation of Afghanistan. Are Today
still 193 Belgian soldiers and six F-16 fighter aircraft stationed there. The government extended
their efforts each time without much debate. The official says
mission: peace and bring democracy. But Malalai
Joya, a former Afghan MP, says that
foreign occupation business has only
worse, with "more bloodshed, more crimes
more human rights violations and looting more
Afghan resources. " In twelve years of war
200 000 were civilian casualties. The situation of the
Afghan women remains deplorable. 56% of marriages concerned girls of less than 16. Meanwhile flourishes
poppy like never before. 2013 was a record year
for opium cultivation, with 36% more views. The country now provides, under NATO occupation, in
three-quarters of global demand for this drug.

The Belgian military deployment in Afghanistan will cost annually
120 million. After 2014, when the international military
mission in Afghanistan is officially terminates,
Belgium ten years supplying military aid for 12
million per year. Minister Pieter De Crem wants there
still a continuing Belgian military presence
on top.
One flight with an F-16 costs 31 250 euros. Six such
flights chase through a budget which is sufficient for
the whole year operation of the Belgian NGO Mothers For
Peace in Afghanistan, which employs 87 people and
tens of thousands of people reached with medical
and social services.


Two: Our government continues victims
this war and does not give them the protection that
they deserve.
Our government is bombing in Afghanistan while
refuses to allow Afghan refugees asylum. She
even sends them back to the war zone. Families also
with children receive a deportation order and who comes of age, can be forcibly repatriated.
In 2012 received the 3290 Afghan refugees
who submitted an application for a residence permit, only in 1490 a positive answer. The remaining
1800 were rejected. Because it is in their region
Afghanistan under Belgian service was just a moment no war? In this way saved state secretary Maggie De Block in 2013 85 million euros
asylum and deleted them thousands of shelters.


Three: New military expenditures for the purchase
of combat aircraft?

Minister De Crem wants the F-16 fighter planes replaced by high-tech F-35's. Price tag: 150 million
... euros each. And another 7.2 million
operating costs. Per device. Per year. Without
fuel count. One such fighter would
3750 teachers in Belgium deliver a job for one year. The US sees the American F-35's
for Belgium are secure. Also because the new
American B61 nuclear bombs can carry that
(illegally) are stored at Kleine Brogel.

NATO wants Belgium and other countries heavier
provide military efforts. Which already has the N-VA
well understood. This party wants to double
military spending, "from 1.06% of GDP today,
to the NATO standard of 2%. " The CD & V boasts
that "the permanent deployment of troops in military
operations with a third party has been increased, to 1200 military personnel. " For the Socialist Party is "to undertake foreign
operations a key task of our army. " Even Green wants

101

peace

"A small, efficient and deployable army." Belgium colors
so neatly within the lines of NATO.
The big Belgian parties also want the European
Union give greater military capability, "opposite
the other geopolitical blocs "(Open VLD). The
N-VA, speaks of a "European army".

Four: All parties in parliament have the
approved wars in Libya and Afghanistan.
Every sane person prefers peace over war.
Yet we last century two terrible
World Wars known. And there were in the 1990s
wars in Yugoslavia.
Today there are armed conflicts in Afghanistan
and Iraq, Libya and Syria, Congo and Colombia. There play
as local conditions and dynamics, but the West has in each of these conflicts a role in the causes of - the unfair North-South relations, the expansionism of multinationals, the colonial
history ... - but also in warfare
self - arms supplies and military training, intelligence,
political interference, drones, direct military intervention, bombing and ground forces.
Belgium is concerned, all the way to the bombing of Libya and the military occupation of Afghanistan. Libya got that military involvement,
unanimous support of the entire Belgian parliament, from
all parties.

Five: With foreign military interventions, we do not promote peace.
Belgium wants to be a good student in the classroom NATO,
but is that a good idea? NATO countries go
more and more foreign military interventions.
The European Union is moving along, with
particularly in Africa (Mali, Central African Republic ...).
And if it is not NATO or the EU, there is still
the option of the "coalition of the willing" or action under the UN flag. For those foreign interventions
usually accustomed to a "humanitarian" justification, or the "responsibility to protect" (the "responsibility to protect"). Those interventions
often go other forms of external pressure in advance,
such as economic embargoes and sanctions and undermine the sovereignty.
But peace and stability not taking you with sanctions
especially affecting the population and certainly not with bombers and combat troops. The common man pays the bill, there and here, with death and destruction in the
affected countries, refugee flows and the cost
for the taxpayers here.

Six: The European Union is not exactly a peace dove.
The European Union did receive the Nobel Prize
Peace, but develops its own military strategy
is not so peaceful. Eurocorps is the the
nucleus of a European army under construction, the Battle
Groups are multinational rapid intervention units,
and the European Defence Agency (EDA) is primarily a
agency in the service of the European arms industry.

102

This military expansion is contained in the Treaty of
Lisbon and in other EU basic documents.
The transatlantic alliance with the US in NATO Bandage is provided therein.

Seven: stay up nuclear weapons in our country.
As part of the membership of NATO and
the partnership with the US, in Kleine Brogel 20
nuclear bombs made. The US wants to outdated
B61 nuclear weapons now even upgrade, which means that they must continue to be operational. The
NATO remains committed to its nuclear strategy and
Belgium remains bound. At the summit in The Hague
on nuclear safety nuclear weapons even came
not even discussed. The Belgian population will that
WMD away. It is high time
that the Belgian Government, the population follows it.

The vision of the PTB +
Belgium must develop their own vision of peace and peace strategy. Instead of participating in military
interventions we can specialize more in peace and disarmament initiatives, as we already did
in connection with the uranium and cluster and with
demining tasks. Other small countries like Norway and Switzerland do so, as a mediator in
conflict or international humanitarian assistance.
We do not want any Belgian participation in foreign military interventions. Peacekeeping missions can only be within the strict framework of
a multilateral peace agreement, with the consent of
the host country, respect for international law
and the Charter of the UN, at least not in NATO Verband. And provided that a prior democratic parliamentary debate, with complete transparency.

And NATO? Why Belgium would not go for a
(gradual) withdrawal from this military alliance?
We continue to believe that NATO should be abolished
be. Pending our country can contribute to the
NATO and the military Europe to a strict minimum
limit, starting with the shift of resources from military security to civilian security.

For Afghanistan it is time for a Belgian Farewell to Arms. Where possible, we encourage dialogue
and negotiations between all parties involved,
where the countries of the region involved. We
withdraw the troops and Belgian F-16s immediately
back and rescind the decision to annually 12 million
euro to continue to provide military assistance to Afghanistan.

peace

At the same time we drive up the assistance to the Afghan asylum seekers in Belgium. We do not want another one
Afghan on the aircraft is put. We do not want
there are still others returned Afghans
murdered. We propose a moratorium on all deportations to Afghanistan and have a residence permit for Afghan families and individuals. That
also means that all Afghans in detention centers
stuck, be released.
To war and violence Belgium as a signal
to give peace.

The proposals of the PTB +
1. Immediate withdrawal of the Belgian
troops and F-16s from Afghanistan. No Belgian
contribution to an extended international military stay
in Afghanistan after 2014. Withdrawal of the decision to
there each year to spend 12 million euros.

2. For a negotiated solution for Afghanistan. The international community must be
mobilized for a mediation-way dialogue
and negotiations between all interested parties. The
countries in the region have engaged in that process
be respectful of the sovereignty and the personal
development of the country.

3. No participation in foreign military interventions.
4. Belgium must reduce its contribution to NATO and to the military Europe to a minimum pending
the revision of Belgium's role and membership
therein.

No purchase of new fighter aircraft F-35. Shift of funds from military
security policy to a non-military security.

5. Withdrawal of US nuclear weapons from our country. No its modernization.
Legal ban on the presence of nuclear weapons
on Belgian territory. Support to conventions
nuclear-free zones and on a treaty that
nuclear weapons bans.

6. Belgium must develop its own vision of peace and peace strategy and not slavishly the US, NATO and the EU
follow.

7. For the Afghans, we ask:
• A serious assessment of the situation in Afghanistan and the risk of worsening after
2014.
• A moratorium on removals to Afghanistan.
• A legal status for all Afghan refugees who already reside on the Belgian territory.

energy

Goleft # 18. It is our energy
The election survey by the WPB
"How to make energy affordable?"
Answer of 35% of the respondents: "Simple and reduced rates for gas and electricity in France."
Answer of 31% of the respondents, "Public Enterprises which establish and cheaper
supply green energy. "

Findings
A. In the stranglehold of Electrabel & co.
Sustainable, affordable energy, it would be a fundamental right
must be. Unfortunately, the opposite is true. Throughout
Europe privatized and liberalized gas and electricity. Ten years after the liberalization of the gas and
electricity sector in Flanders is plenty clear rubble. Not society determines how we take care of heating and lighting, but the wealthy
shareholders of mega multinational companies such as Electrabel
& co. In Belgium, 85 percent of all power in the hands of only four European energy giants GDF SUEZ (Electrabel), EDF (Luminus), ENI (the
former Nuon) and RWE (Essent). The logic of profit comes
in the first place. The capital is paramount, not the
population and environment and climate it is neither.
However promised Flemish Minister for Energy, Steve
Stevaert, when the energy released in 2003
was that the free market "liberal and social at the same time"
was. Everyone would benefit from the advantages: lower prices, increased investment in sustainable energy and a better service for consumers.
Nothing is less true. The promised price drop is not there
come. The Di Rupo government has prices in 2012
albeit temporarily "frozen" at the highest level
ever, but the price freeze has not cracked the high energy prices. Electricity is still today 39
percent higher than ten years ago and even 65 gas
per cent.
The profiteering Electrabel & co are not
addressed. Electrabel loss suffered in 2013 officially,

104

through various accounting tricks, including by
the accelerated depreciation of its power stations. But fact
Electrabel remains that each year more than 1 billion euros
profiteering from Belgian nuclear power plants to the
shareholders of GDF Suez versluist. That is money that
we would be much better to use the current bill
to relieve and to invest in sustainable energy production and fair energy prices.
The lust for power companies, the burden
society, which is the Belgian energy policy in a
nutshell. What our politicians call "the free market"
in reality, a large flow of funds: from
John Doe at the tills of European energy giants. Electrabel and co pay on their profiteering
hardly any taxes and be pampered.
The Di Rupo government has now decided gas plants,
making enough profit to match with tax money. That's the world upside down.

Two. Rising energy poverty.
Energy is for many people a costly expense.
106 000 families have run a repayment plan
with their energy supplier, and 80,000 families
Electrabel & Co. dropped simply because they
energy can not pay more. Energy poverty is increasing year after year. Together with high housing costs, the high energy prices are a major reason
why people end up in poverty. However,
heating and lighting are not a luxury but basic needs that are guaranteed by law to everyone
should be.
More than 100,000 families in Belgium have today
only flow when they first their budget meter
charging. For electricity, there is a minimum delivery
features 10 amps, but who has no money
recharge his gas budget meter, completely remains
sit in the cold. That in the year 2014 vulnerable people and
families in this way of heating and lighting
deprived is degrading.

ENERGY

Three. Consumers will be highlighted.
While the customer is king should be, the consumer is actually lost in the jungle rates.
The electricity bill remains hopelessly complicated and you
but you better have a master's degree in economics at
pocket have if you want to get around in the oversupply
from 49 different rates for one and the same
Product: power at 220 volts. Strong, highly educated
consumers find their way perhaps that tangle, but many people get lost in the jungle of
the free energy market.
The new "consumer agreement" that Electrabel &
Co signed on a voluntary basis, is a measure of
nothing. Energy suppliers commit your future to propose the cheapest rate. But by
The rates can be divided into different price
escape at once that obligation. A loophole the size of the Sportpaleis. Sly marketers lubricate customers overpriced fare formulas,
and door-to-door salesmen lights unsuspecting
consumers on a large scale. They imagine
as an official meter readers, or claim to be sent by the social housing company, or
even by the minister. Call Centers yards, commissioned
energy suppliers, new customers by themselves
set as neutral and objective service.
That is pure scam.

Four. Only 7 percent green energy.
A green energy revolution is little evidence.
In Belgium, today 48 percent of all electricity
green production, if you believe the statistics. Unfortunately, four-fifths comes from "green" electricity
just out of gas or nuclear power plants. GDF Suez and co cheap buy "green labels" on foreign
market and wash their current green. Fully legal,
with the blessing of our government. It's like black
money white wash. The climate is screwed. In fact
In Belgium only a paltry 10 percent of
our electricity is generated sustainably, the majority of them
then in megalomaniac biomass plants. And for
all of our energy goes: only 7 percent
it is green.
Solar panels provide 28 percent of the green,
renewable power. Wind and biogas are another good
for 29 percent. But more than half come
from controversial biomass power plants as in Max Green
Ghent. At that converted coal plants burn Electrabel and E.ON millions of tons of wood pellets from ...
Canada. Environmental organizations such as Greenpeace protest.
They point to the substantial CO2 emissions from biomass plants, on anything but sustainable logging in the
Canadian forests and the environmental quality of
diesel ships that transport the pellets to Europe. But officially delivers the controversial technique or
viable "green" electricity - and much profit, thanks to the towering grants from the Flemish government.

Five. The Tihange nuclear power station remains a decade
open longer.
Instead of our power step by step
to build up a sustainable electricity system,
let the government Electrabel & Co rule the roost. The
consequences are catastrophic. Electrabel continues to swear by
its nuclear power plants. The nuclear power plants in Doel and
Electrabel Tihange supply & co annually more than 1.3
billion on usury. But who will bear
the risks? After thirty years of nuclear energy is still there
no solution to the radioactive waste
of nuclear power plants. And who dares after the nuclear disaster
Fukushima still argue that nuclear energy is safe
is? Yet the federal government, under pressure from
Electrabel decided the closure of the nuclear power plant
Tihange I with another 10-year delay. Another ten
year profiteering Electrabel, ten years nuclear waste
decade our fingers crossed that no nuclear disaster overtakes. So
it stops.

Six. The solar panels scam.
In recent years, multinationals and banks
massive money pumped into large-scale solar farms, attracted by towering Flemish subsidies.
Less than half of the grants go to large 4721
installations. Port Baron Fernand Huts example, showed
present his port warehouses in Antwerp harbor full of solar panels. Yield: 10 million euro subsidy per
years, even twenty years. And who pays the bill?
We. The solar plantations of banks and companies charge each consumer annually 75 to 150 euros. The Flemish Government has decided that all solar subsidies are calculated in the energy bill
all families. So everyone pays it, even though
you are not solar panels. It's the world
upside down. Even the poorest people, even people who do their own
energy bills and can not pay with a budget meter (about) life, pay for the solar panels
of multimillionaire Fernand Huts.
That the solar subsidies now, after broad social protest were finished, nothing will change that
glaring injustice. The Flemish government
After all, would not touch the "acquired rights"
the 4721 industrial solar parks. They still remain twenty
years make profiteering at our expense. Minister Freya Van den Bossche has since called a
"Solar tax" (called netvergoeding) imposed
to all owners of solar panels. But the great
solar farms thereby remain unaffected. The
solar tax is only applicable to the common man,
with a modest photovoltaic system on his own roof. The small owners pay fifteen times more
than the large solar parks.
The wind farms under construction in the North Sea absorb insane amounts of subsidy on.
Wind belongs to everyone, but profits for the multinationals. Instead of having to invest in public green energy projects, the government's North Sea wind farms owned by Electrawinds, dredging

105

ENERGY

DEME, Electrabel, Colruyt and other multinationals. Which
demands a return of 12 percent. And who pays the
account? We. For every euro energy produced by a wind farm, the government imposes two euro tax money. The government will give private energy companies
a free wind farm, at the expense of all of us, and
with a high profit margin, insured by the government. If we still pay the bill, why hold
we wind farms not owned by the
society? Why must everything of value,
be sold out to private energy corporations?

The vision of the PTB +
Energy is too important to leave to the
free market. Heating and lighting would just like
drinking water and health care should a fundamental right
are. No merchandise. Energy is essential for the whole
society. We must dare to dream. We want a
public energy sector in the hands of society.
We want a socialization of power. Heating and lighting are utilities, not a commercial commodity. We want green
electricity and heat, under the democratic control of
the society. Energy is too important to leave to the greed of private multinationals.
Instead of the chaos of the free market, we propose the
logic of a planned approach, goal-oriented and democratic. We need as a society to decide which energy we want tomorrow: sustainable
and democratic. Energy as a public service
So, as a utility. That's where we stand.

Counteract global warming: act now!
We must change course. To the warming of
stop climate change, we have to rebuild our energy quickly and widely. The
nuclear power plants should be closed, as provided in the Act
on the nuclear exit. We need to invest heavily in green heat and renewable electricity. Technologically it is perfect, especially if we
Collaborate European scale. But even in their own country
the possibilities are much greater than the paltry seven percent green energy we today
reach. In a first phase energy-efficient gas power plants will be needed to address the shortage of green energy
catch, but according to a study by the Netherlands, it is technologically possible to counter
2050 to completely switch to renewable energy.
There's only one problem. That green revolution is only
achievable if we have the energy multinationals offside
put. Between dream and reality are energy giants
Electrabel and co in the way. We need a new course itself

106

turn off for the future, instead of the steering wheel over
to let the headquarters of GDF Suez and co.
The energy revolution that we need is a social upheaval. She forces us far ahead
thinking beyond the delusion of profit. We should like
society again get a grip on our energy supply. We like the direction of the energy in
get own hands.
We want self outlining a concrete roadmap
for the green revolution. We start with a ban on the import of coal power. We replace
nuclear plants as soon as possible by public green
power companies. Brand new gas-fired plants that are closed today need from profit considerations
must remain open, under penalty of nationalization. We
the gas plants need until we all our
Electricity can generate sustainable. Instead of
wind farms, biomass power plants and solar farms to outsource to private multinationals, we invest as government itself in public utilities,
that produce green energy under democratic control and be cheap to the population.
To combat global warming and
while giving everyone access to affordable
and sustainable heat supply, we have our heating system, which is today based mainly on
gas, replaced by green heat. We suggest
to district heating systems where possible there
lay, in public hands. This is fed via a
pipe network of waste heat or heat from businesses
the substrate directly to the families at home
accommodated. As we build a climate-friendly
heating, we save a lot of money on gas and
fuel oil and at the same time we improve the air quality
our cities.

Energy on a human scale: durable and super
social.
The WPB + adjusts humans and the environment in the first place.
We want energy on a human scale: durable and super
social. Fuel poverty to be addressed,
and renewable energy must be affordable for
everybody. The energy transition, the transition to a
sustainable energy should be funded in a socially just manner: by the energy sector, not by ordinary families. The strongest
shoulders must bear the heaviest burden. That is
a question of social justice.
People have a right to affordable, fair rates.
Instead of fully focusing on the "perfecting"
the jungle of the free market, with its opaque, devious tariff plans and greedy energy companies, we will put the free market curtailed.
Only in this way can we protect consumers. Liberalisation is bankrupt. GDF Suez and co
have proved that they are unable to an affordable, sustainable energy to be provided for all.

ENERGY

3. Six percent VAT on electricity and gas.

The proposals of the PTB +
1. Power to the people. Energy into their own hands.
Energy is too important to be left to the free
market. In a green revolution, there is no place for
Electrabel & co. We want to leverage our
future self get hold of. We advocate the
socialization of the energy sector. Man
and the environment should arrive in the first place, it does not
private profit interests of multinational companies. We want the
stranglehold of European energy giants. In place
GDF Suez, RWE, EDF and ENI we want a public power in the hands of society
and under democratic control. Only in this way
we can replace the chaos of the free market
the planned development of a sustainable energy system.

2. Public utilities for green energy.
We want the establishment of public energy companies. The government now versluist our tax money to
the energy giants. We want the government invests itself in sustainable energy and low-cost,
green energy supplies to the population.
Who is investing today in the renewable energy
tomorrow must have a broad vision. We advocate
a national plan for the future for green energy, and
energy companies for green electricity at national
level. Democratic control is crucial. The
Board of Directors is not politically appointed, but
elected by consumers and environmental organizations and trade unions are represented. Burgers
have the right to speak and all board meetings are
public and are broadcast live on the Internet.
In addition, also city for green energy companies make a valuable contribution, by locally
small scale help build the energy system
of tomorrow. We also advocate a European wind farm in the North Sea, in public hands and
control of society.
Public utilities are not utopian. More than
60 German cities have in recent years flow multinationals local swung the slab, shown the door and own city enterprises. In Munich
supplies a city business affordable green electricity
95 percent of the population. The German city businesses
Situated in the small that it can indeed different.

In 2008 the Workers' Party, the campaign "six percent".
Reduce VAT on electricity and gas, at the expense of
nuclear profiteering Electrabel, was the
message. Energy is too expensive and it is not a luxury,
but a basic need. Why then the luxury rate
21 percent charge for heating and lighting,
such as lobster and caviar?
After six years of campaigning and 200 000 signatures
the government decided the VAT on electricity from April
2014 to decrease from 21 to 6 percent. A beautiful
victory. The WPB wants the government also VAT
for gas decreases to 6%, and that the bill is sent to Electrabel, which makes enough profit.

4. One rate for all.
Complex tariffs, non-transparent pricing formulas
and deceptive marketing practices that reduce the
vaunted consumer choice to a
optical illusion. The consumer is free to go and
where he wants, but lose the north.
A society is not a supermarket. Unlike the
new convertibles on the car salon, gas and electricity are vital basic needs for many
families are untenable expensive. That can not be resolved
by letting the market play, or by structural
measures:
• Require suppliers to provide one standard rate, as Ecopower. The green energy cooperative
requires no subscription fee, and there is only one
rate of indefinite duration: 0.22 euro per kilowatt-hour,
all inclusive. No rampant profusion of
incomprehensible pricing formulas, no questionable promotions, no pages of fine print, no snakes in the grass. What you see is what you get.
• Do not allow suppliers to prices in interim
to fit. A ban on unexpected price shocks
price changes only once a year
possible to create, protect consumers against
unpleasant surprises.
• Lay maximum prices, as in France, where consumers can subscribe to "le tarif bleu", a
rate imposed by the government and where
more than 90 percent of the French use of
make.
• Create an exception to the liberalization
families. Provide a government supplier,
families guarantees the best price for sustainable
power, no frills, and without misery.

5. Protect consumers from the liberalized energy market.
We advocate for the real consumer protection:
• Do not allow door-to-door sales and selling energy contracts through call centers.
• Energy Centres in the cities, where consumers can go for free energy from the government.
• Mandatory full customer services for each
energy supplier, customer offices in each production

107

ENERGY

vinci capital, toll free numbers and a ban on Internet contracts without service.
• Energy suppliers can not refuse clients more
and the question of safeguards for vulnerable customers
should be prohibited.

6. Climate Planning.
Buy instead of clean air abroad
the government needs a national equipment plan
make, where investments in (sustainable) energy, power lines and storage
green electricity, are systematically developed.
It should not be the logic of the market and the profits of the
energy companies come first, but the interests of
humans and the environment.

7. Remove green electricity from the distribution network tariffs.
Instead on the subsidy cost for solar panels
to wallow in all users, we want the strongest shoulders bear the heaviest burden.
• Remove the cost of green power in the distribution tariffs on our electricity bill and send the
account to Electrabel and co.
• There should be an audit of the large solar parks. The profitability of each park must be evaluated and the funding of existing parks be reduced and capped to a normal
returns. That way we get rid of the
about subsidization of thousands of large-scale
solar parks.
• The small solar panel owners remain outside
shot. The netvergoeding for small installations,
introduced by the Flemish government, is
abolished.

8. A third-party payment system for insulation and
energy efficient appliances.
The subsidies for energy conservation, insulation and
energy-saving investments should focus on
the groups that are most vulnerable tenants to
elderly, people with low incomes. To
anyone admit to invest in climate and
energy conservation, we want a third-party payment system.
The government shoots the investment and the
consumer pays back the loan in installments, with the
gain on the energy bill to zero percent.

9. No large-scale roll-out of smart meters.
We are against the large-scale roll-out of smart
meters'. The technology is expensive, the hunts
consumer again, at the expense and the effect on
the energy is negligible. A
scale, compulsory introduction of smart
meters is antisocial and not efficient. Smart meters
at district level are ample. Also at owners
Solar panels are smart meters make sense
as long as the costs are not passed on in the
energy prices from everyone.

108

CRIME

Goleft # 19. Neighborhood Crime:
prevention is better than punishment
Four. Serious organized crime remains off
the visor.

Findings
A. Crime and insecurity affect all
of society.
Victims of aggression or theft - and their
family - often remain drawn behind. Criminality
and insecurity linger in our clothes and
will help determine how we think and live. There is a
overall approach, with repression but above all with
prevention, relief, satisfaction for the victims and
rehabilitation of offenders after the sentence.

Two. The reception of victims get enough
attention.
They are left with anxiety and questions. Why me? What
inspired the perpetrator? Will my damage be repaired?
The court rarely gives enough space for what
everything goes through the victim. Wrongly
the Di Rupo government has the good work of the service
victims and the justice centers partially finished.

Three. The penalty is growing: repression as a response
on social problems.
In 2000 there were 8688 detainees. In 2012 were
that there are 11 107, an increase of 30% and a record. The
prison overcrowding. But according to the
figures from the police is not even there
large increase in crime in front. Between
2000 and 2012 there has been an increase in crime
with less than 10%. Justice punishes so more and harder,
but without real impact on the security situation.
The tendency is that lengthen prison terms
(after the reform of the law Lejeune), but it
Prison budget does not follow this trend. The
budgets for counseling and rehabilitation of oudgevangenen stay completely behind.
Marche-en-Famenne, the government built Haren ...
new prisons. Through public-private
partnership (PPP) There are new
prisons in. At the time threatens privatization
of its operation. Other countries are already there
negative experiences with.
In addition, the Di Rupo government measures taken
Justice even further removed from the average citizen.
There is a class justice and so feel the
Belgians it also (see Chapter 5 Justice).

There will billions in drugs and arms.
The great crime is well organized and
sophisticated as he is, legitimate market channels to which
organizing trade. These are often the same channels
as of fiscal fraud by the "classic"
millionaires. These large, organized crime,
Down the ladder continues to provide offenses and
violence is ignored.

The vision of the PTB +
The right to live in safety and the right to physical integrity are basic rights.
Crime, violence, insecurity ... It often touches
the innermost being of the victims and their families.
They often stay behind after signed aggression or theft.
Can safely live, can play outside safely to
the store can manage and neighborhoods: security
and forming the protection of the physical integrity
a basic right such as the right to education or work.
These basic rights are far from guaranteed.
People are pushed into unemployment and poverty,
investments in education and in livable neighborhoods remain
par ... In such a context and derail people
Youth faster.
Safety depends on the social context and the
socio-economic policy, it is not a "right on".
The right to physical integrity is a basic duty
paramount to consistently left. Right after all, has
only one answer and that is more and more repression.
Such a one-sided approach is counterproductive.
We are in favor of a security policy
two pillars. With immediate short-term measures
against whom cohabitation ruined and concrete and
sustainable solutions to prevent crime.

Direct action against whom cohabitation
ruined.
Physical violence and crime should effectively punished
be. The perpetrators must be accountable
be held accountable for what they have done. A
Punishment should be swiftly and decisively, but with

109

CRIME

respect for the rights of the defense. That
does not mean to spot longest and hardest to punish,
but: punish in an appropriate manner (prison,
community service, community service, ankle ...).
It can not be that perpetrators of severe physical or
acts of sexual violence off the hook. Just
as little as it may be possible that the perpetrators of
other serious crimes remain at large:
traffickers, drug barons, economic
criminals and fraudsters from the banking world,
the diamond world and the industrial world. The
Drug trafficking is one of the most profitable
economic sectors. All these serious crimes
must be punished just as severely
as the proximity crime. Police and courts
should effectively battle against the great
organized crime, the mafia, the generals
drug trafficking and human trafficking, the great
Scams and fraud. It's those generals of the
crime yards in the districts of lieutenants, often
from the excluded and vulnerable groups.
We are in favor of restorative punishments for
neighborhood crime (see Chapter 5 Justice). Alone
focusing on criminal justice is incomplete.
A restorative criminal justice policy is fairer.
Offenders must realize what they are with the victims
have done and how they can damage
recover. A restorative punishment can pay
withholding of compensation, but also a
alternative measure. They must be such that
the victim feels that there is listened to and
that the damage he suffered, was restored.
A restorative criminal justice policy is also the most
effective to prevent relapse offenders.
The mere "prison-oriented" approach pushes offenders
often deeper into marginality and in a
vicious cycle of recidivism. Except in exceptional
cases imprisonment should aim
eventually that the offender back into society
is recording. Involvement of citizens
the judiciary is essential to make this system well
function.
Restorative penalties are also better for the
society as a whole. By neighborhood crime
particularly to address through this restorative system
the actors of the police and justice may (attorneys,
investigating magistrates ...) concentrate their efforts
the large fiscal and financial fraudsters and
crimes which society as a whole
corrode.

Sustainable solutions to prevent crime.
Can prevent many neighborhood crime and vandalism
are investing in the social fabric, with
policy attention to living together in neighborhoods, in
The school safety on public transport,
reappraisal of the role of police officer ... There goes
prevention policy over.
Strengthen the social fabric and so crime

110

prevent, that is, investing in neighborhoods
community workers and animators from the neighborhood itself,
Back install janitors in the blocks, support
grant to the neighborhood committees, ensure adequate
public facilities in every neighborhood and actively intervene
by vacancy and dilapidation. Clean neighborhoods,
well-lit streets and squares, community centers and
telephone booths can contribute to a safer neighborhood.
We are not focusing on the police as violent
robocop, but we put indeed in the revaluation
the police officer. We want a second, fixed
accompanist at tram and bus so everyone relax
Public transport can take.
Finally, live, you also learn at school.
We turn recognized associations and
experts in education in order to
To samenlevingszin and social behavior and speak in
to debate.
The causes of crime are the basic problem, the
soil in which criminal behavior grows. Those causes
we need to tackle, but without crime
good talk or argue for impunity.
Young people who commit acts of neighborhood crime
are for the most part unemployed, low or not
educated, or discriminated against. A life situation of no
future. That problem you solve mainly by in Jobs
provided. Good jobs. Our society has
resources to ensure this.
Inequality in education approaches, the
Education refinance, provide work for young people,
combat discrimination against populations,
help people in road rather than to exclude them from:
it is all necessary. Some parties raise many
about safety but at the same time conduct an undisturbed
neoliberal exclusion policy. They do nothing
restructuring and closures, they leave social
homes languish and skimp on the
education budget. Their only response is repression.
In societies with greater equality, there is less
violence and crime.
Who wants to act effectively against violence and crime
so will have to pursue a two-track policy:
punish crime effectively and to focus on a
prevention policy.

The deep society crisis associated with
brutal violence.
The economic and financial crisis, the social
crisis with its harrowing gap between abundance
and shortage, go hand in hand with a moral crisis
that exposes how capitalism human
denies. That deterioration is full of brutal violence:
economic violence, white collar crime, tax
fraud and counterfeiting, as well as extreme right and
terrorist attacks, war and invasions

for geostrategic objectives and control
oil and other commodities. The disregard of the
human eats like carbonation in society.
Armed robberies and kidnappings, drug dealers,
pimps and other extortionists, carjackers, homejackers,
traffickers: organized crime

CRIME

a mirror of society.
In the neurosis of the current economic system
security is reduced to muscular repression.
However, the most important preventive against the heavy remains
crime prevention society. Its okay
surrounding a high level of social protection and social
to ensure justice to the people. So that
cases that are of interest, can be guaranteed.
So that a sense of social security can
thereby, a carefree feeling of expectation
for the next day. So that criminals no network
recruitment of able lieutenants and dealer gently under
the excluded, which no other option
see, or learned nothing else than the fast
financial gain.
On the collective basis of social justice
and security will be other values
possible and can finally come to an end
the double standard. The double standard that
is zero tolerance and mass imprisonment as preaching
it is about one form of violence and in the meantime
war and violence bankers have free rein.
When society no longer revolves around the
I-highest efficiency, competition and war,
may rate as the unity of word and deed,
collaboration and social protection, solidarity and
respect gain the upper hand.

pere districts, sufficiently illuminated streets and squares,
community centers and public telephones can help
a safer neighborhood.
8. No reduction in the number of community police officers, but
revaluation of the local police with a good
education, accessible and close to the people
state. Community police officers who also live in the district and the
people know, are much more effective to nuisance and
crime fighting than armed to the teeth
robocops who come from outside. Community police officers can
doing prevention work and problems for which notice
degenerate into criminal behavior.
9. A second attendant on public transport. In
Amsterdam and Rotterdam became the aggression
and criminality significantly reduced.
10. Lessons in samenlevingszin at school. Live together
they also learn at school. Recognized associations and experts can be brought in
to talk about social and public samenlevingszin
and engaging in debate. The classes bring together
with respect for the collectivity (the neighborhood, the neighbors ...)
and for public services. Encounters with
postmen, with personnel from the Loop, the SNCB or
of the CPAS in their workplace to social
tissue development and combat vandalism and fly tipping.
11. To address the problems at the roots: education, jobs, and action against discrimination.

The proposals of the PTB +
1. A quick and resolute punishment of neighborhood crime.
2. Zero tolerance for serious organized crime and white-collar crime.
3. The victim put central. Restorative penalties for neighborhood crime.
4. community workers and animators in the neighborhoods,
back janitors in the blocks. So they fixed
round can avoid expanding in neighborhoods and parks and public nuisance.
5. support Neighbourhood committees.
6. More street animators for youth to social and
carry out educational work in conjunction with community organizations. They are a kind of educators, in contact with
neighbors and residents. They can work preventatively in
consultation with school truancy prevention,
identify housing problems ...
7. Adequate public facilities in every neighborhood.
Active action against vacancy and dilapidation. Pro-

111

Gays

GoLeft # 20. Equal rights for gays

Findings

The vision of the PTB +

A. There is still a lot of work to do against
discrimination against gays

We stand up for equal rights for all and
ask respect for every human being, regardless of his / her
sexual orientation and / or gender identity.
We stand for the adaptation of the law so
LGB parents in the same way as hetero-parents
their children can recognize / identify.
We want the positive achievements of LGBT
defend, promote solidarity and warm appearance
in a spirit of cooperation and dialogue between
all groups. In order to avoid that different
discriminated groups against each other
played out, we advocate that the racism and
combat homophobia together and as tensions
between gay or transgender, and some
immigrants lag behind.
Education plays an important role in children
to familiarize and learn to achieving respect
for different forms of society.

In recent years there have been a lot of discrimination
concealed gays. LGBT people are much more
accepted. People of the same sex can
marry and have children. There is more openness
come. But there is still work to be done.
The coming out is still often difficult at home, at school,
at work, with friends ... There are still a lot
prejudice and discrimination. Transgenders experience
that much more special.

Two. Difficulties for adoption.
The co-mother should today - non-organic
mother in a lesbian couple - to adopt
also his legal mother of the child. This
adoption procedure takes at least six months, with
the associated costs. Pending the
adoption is for the co-mother and the child much
legal uncertainty.
LGBT couples and gender variant people is on
currently impossible to have a child from abroad
to adopt.
A frequently asked question: "Do children of LGBT
no father and needed a mother? "Studies show
that children of two fathers or two mothers in nothing
differences of children from a family with a father
and mother. Children with a single parent
there would indeed negatively affect them.

Three. Rousing and violence against homosexuals
Under the influence of the extreme right, religious fanaticism
and conservatism are gays
targeted. What starts with rousing words
often results in violence on the streets.

The proposals of the PTB +
1. Each combat discrimination. Belgium should at the various levels of government to build a coordinated policy of equal opportunities for gays and gender-variant people. Strengthen anti-discrimination legislation
irrelevant.
2. Clear sexual education in education,
including holibi- and transgender issues. Awareness campaigns aimed at dismantling prejudices, through a focus on diversity and powerful
to act against aggressors.
3. Make sufficient financial resources for the gay / transgender movement free, also for her role as
center of expertise.
4. co-mothers have their children can identify / recognize as heterosexual parents can do.

112

Gays

5. Further research is needed into the effects of
family compositions. Which shows that children in
certain family situations find themselves disadvantaged, must
additional support to be given: psychological,
educational, financial, childcare ...
6. Enter prevention campaigns around sexual and gay /
transphobic violence in companies, schools and youth movements. Put on conviction emphasis on community service orders in organizations fighting for gay / transgender rights and against sexual violence.
7. Recognize individuals because of their sexual orientation (or gender identity or expression) of their liberty
deprived and persecuted as a political refugee.

113

FOOD

GoLeft # 21. Safe food at a fair price

Findings
A. The liberalization of agricultural
has led to erratic price fluctuations.
Our agricultural policy has been since 2001 a competency
of the regions. But that policy is fully
determined by the European level of government. Since the
90s that policy is being systematically dismantled and
left to the market: the price of commodities
- The price that farmers receive for their milk, grain,
cattle ... - was reduced to the level of the
world and all kinds of protective mechanisms
for our farmers were abolished. This
liberalization has led to price fluctuations
depending on the whims of the market. These fluctuations
attract speculators, and, as in 2007, to fast
result in rising food prices.

Two. Farmers have structurally off
count with a low and insecure incomes.
Due to fluctuations in food commodity take the food industry and supermarkets
their concerns and demanding higher margins, especially in
low prices. The result is that farmers too low a
and have very uncertain income. Fewer and fewer people work in our agriculture.
Not all links in the food chain have the same
economic power. The farmers sell their
raw materials in the food industry, which in its
turn contracts with supermarkets. The
supermarkets have the greatest market power.
In our country five supermarkets control 71% of the
turnover of food products. Those supermarkets
conduct among themselves a struggle for the largest
market shares. The lure customers through low
prices for basic foods is one of their strategies.
But because they also put a lot of pressure on their
vendors from the food industry, which in turn
lowest-price pay as they go to the
farmers and farmers' purchases.

Three. Exploitation of workers in the food chain and unreliable quality of the
power supply.
The food chain is becoming increasingly global
branched. The food traders in turn,
are feverishly looking for the cheapest

114

commercial transactions, anywhere in the world. But
inexpensive means exploitation of workers
the food chain and unreliable quality of
the nutrition. Hence the horse meat scandal,
the underpaid workers in the (German)
meat industry and exploited workers in the
pineapple plantations in Costa Rica, where the majority of
our pineapples comes from.
Also, upstream, ie before the stage of the
agricultural production itself, the chain is dominated
by a small number of multinationals producers
chemical fertilizers, pesticides and seeds.
Soybean meal imported from Brazil, Argentina
and the US is used as raw material by the
feed businesses around the input ports of which
farmers depend.

The vision of the PTB +
An agricultural policy is required to have a good
food supply guarantee: quantitative,
terms of quality and price. The production and distribution
that food should be as environmentally friendly
possibly happen. We therefore want to see the emphasis
are healthy food that can be accessed
everybody.
The real needs should prevail and not the
profit targets of the business world and the
agribusiness. Depending on the needs and the
buildup of inventories, the production and be
trade of agricultural regulated. The
international agricultural trade, in the
particularly in the developing world, should be a fair
commercially. Export programs should fit within
trade and cooperation agreements and may,
food security and the economy of the country
destination not hurt.
We want stable prices for agricultural produce.
Those prices should be the cost of producing a
Medium reflect farm. Therein
including all costs necessary for good
social status of farmers, a good
quality of the diet and an environmental friendly
production.

FOOD

The proposals of the PTB +
1. Legally enforceable transparency in all stages
of the food chain. Leg legal codes
and specifications governing all stages of the
food production, from raw material to finished product and this
the economic, social and environmental aspects
of production. Make sufficient resources available for
these checks and put sanctions in case of infringements.
2. Sufficient and healthy food is a
basic and should be accessible to
everybody. Put an end to the manipulation of the
index basket, the consumer price index should
prices include a healthy diet.
3. Rationalization, centralization and more
independent development of the research
for agriculture, horticulture and animal husbandry. These centers
are now too many spread across the various
authorization levels. Its basic vision must
its sustainable agriculture. No investigation or
promotion in the service of multinationals chemical
inputs (pesticides) and (genetically
manipulated) sell seeds.
4. Promotion by Government
forms of cooperation such as cooperatives in the
agriculture and food, involving
of the consumer. Greater orientation towards local
food production and trade circuits.
5. Sustainable and fair food in
staff restaurants of the government, including
public enterprises, community schools ...
(example).

115

peace

REFUGEES

GoLeft # 22. Refugees:
a man is not illegal
Three. Belgian migration policy violates the
human rights.

Findings
A. The migration is increasing.
The migration in the world is increasing. Were in 2000
Counted 150 million international migrants, though today
214 million.
For centuries, people have been looking for a
better life. 70 percent of the world
lives in countries where income inequality in recent
decades increased. Unfair world trade and a
towering debt keep countries
South in an economic stranglehold. Conflicts
and wars force people to migrate. The
Climate change environmental disasters especially
hit the poor South. Half of the refugees
Today ecological refugees.
The UN counted 45.2 million refugees in 2012. That
23,000 refugees per day, the second highest
since the number of counts.
Developing countries have 80 percent of
taking in refugees: usually own
country or their region, at best, in a
refugee camp. Only 8 percent of all
refugees coming to Europe. And it comes eight
percent to Belgium for this protection or "asylum" to
search.
Asylum seekers are only one part of the influx
migrants. About 65 percent of migrants
namely EU citizens, often from neighboring countries. They come
here usually with a labor contract. There are also
family reunion migrants and migrants with other statutes.

Two. Europe is building itself into a fortress.
The European Union holds the gates precariously close
for migrants from outside Europe. The Union applies
legislation to which 'manage'. But also physical
it is difficult for people to get in.
Member States invest in a joint police force
Border Guard: Frontex, with radar systems
drones, scanners, helicopters ... to the coasts and
limits to be monitored. Perhaps were already 20 000
people looking for a better life, to the
southern coasts of the continent.

116

In 2012, the "voluntary return" with 21 percent
and increased the number of asylum requests
15 percent fell. Secretary of State for Asylum and
Migration, Maggie De Block puts it as a feather in
her hat, but in fact 20 000 asylum seekers were
and people with a legal right to reception without help
put on the street. However, it is vulnerable
people just are sent to the street. She
are all in the care of "the citizen
a good heart "entrusted.
The asylum investigation, which must decide whether
people at risk in their country and
may claim asylum, was accelerated.
Refugee organizations warn that the
quality of those studies is thereby reduced.
Burden of proof on the refugee himself.
People in their homeland real danger
run, are not believed because they lack
documents to prove the danger.
War Refugees lack the protection
which they are entitled. As a result, in 2012
barely 7 percent of the refugees
"Subsidiary protection" granted. Those "of subsidiary
protection "granted to refugees
a real risk of "serious injury" in case
return to the country of origin. However, the five
countries from which most of the refugees come are
countries at war. The Afghan refugees
with their protest made clear how wrong it
protection runs.
People are rejected, they must return.
Because of the danger in their home country can
and they do not and so they end up in a
Stay situation "undocumented".
Undocumented migrants have virtually no
rights unless urgent medical care. But also
shall be subject to conditions. The CPAS
Brussels and Antwerp medical assistance to want
families with children ... unless they refuse to
return center would go there and sign for
a "voluntary" return within thirty days.
Undocumented migrants do not have
a work permit. They should survive
undeclared work and are easy victims of
exploitation. Because they can not protest because the
Social inspection should call the police ... who
undocumented than proves.

REFUGEES
State Secretary De Block also tightened the
"Medical regularization". Medical stay can
only still in very serious health problems.
Even people with HIV or stroke
rejected. In July 2012 an Armenian man died
to liver disease. In December 2012 died
a man from Kosovo to a heart attack. In both
cases, the request for medical regularization
declared inadmissible.

Four. The policy has no solution for undocumented migrants.
Who without a valid residence permit in the Netherlands
resident must return. For those who "voluntarily" wants back is
paid a return ticket. Only a small minority
uses it. People often decide
even a life without papers here is even better than
the danger and misery of their homeland.
The police may undocumented locked up
in a detention center for repatriation. The five
detention centers are usually full. The Belgian state
must provide the necessary documents to someone
return but often they do not succeed in that. 87
percent of the arrested undocumented
is therefore sooner or later released back but
without papers, in a lawless situation.
In that situation hundreds of Afghan
asylum seekers. They asked, supported by social
organizations and sympathizers, a fruitless
solution to their problem. A young Afghan
who decided to "voluntarily" return - Belgium had
judged that a return was safe - was
Kabul shot. UN warns of the
danger there, but Afghan asylum seekers are not
believed.

The vision of the PTB +
A fair migration policy takes into account
our own interests, but also with those of the migrant
and its origin. Unilateral "active migration"
For example, attracts the best minds and strongest
forces away from the countries of the South or the
countries in crisis (such as Greece, Spain and Portugal)
while there are just very necessary.
The European migration policy only looks at the
self-interest and leave as little as possible refugees
and migrants inside.
A fair migration policy goes hand in hand with
an equitable North-South policies that the causes
migration a structural way. The world has never
so much wealth produced as today. But almost
a billion people have to harvesting less than
twenty euros per month. Yet each has
man, from newborn to elderly, over a
potential income of four hundred euros per month.

That injustice must in the world. This requires
economic and trade relations thoroughly

otherwise. An equitable North-South policy allows the
developing countries themselves decide their future,
with fair trade relations and a waiver of
debt without interference or warfare
from the north.
People who need protection,
should have every opportunity to receive it.
People ignore and lawlessness undocumented
let creates an underclass: easy
prey to unscrupulous landlords, poverty, small
crime and exploitation. Right Lozen accept
moonlighting at starvation wages because they do not
have alternative. So they put pressure on all wages
and working conditions. But give that group
right to exist and they can help build our
society.
The rules for regularization should be clear
and enrolled in law. For years, questions
refugee organizations which objective criteria
the law to be registered on "Sustainable
anchoring "(work, social relationships, language skills), long
asylum procedures, urgent humanitarian situations,
Minors ...
The massive regularization in 2009 expired on
basis of objective rules. But instead of the
clear rules on the law to register, lapsed
they are after three month. Today decided the Service
Foreigners again arbitrary case-by
case, without clear rules.
The lack of clarity, lack of clear
legal rules, put people today to
To continue litigation. Clarity would be less
professional applications, fewer files, fewer
backlog and minimize the costs.
We want to deal with the regularization requests
by an independent committee, independent of the
Immigration Department, for example, within the
Public Service Employment, Labour and Social
Consultation, also with people from NGOs and civil society.
The assessment whether someone can not return to his
country - which is part of the regularization decision
- Should not be the exclusive right of the Service
Immigration.
We return to the closed centers. Who here
staying without papers should not be a criminal
be covered and locked in a
prison. There needs to be a change, confinement
should be banned. The detention centers are
inefficient monitoring violations
rights and to submit the complaint possibilities are
is limited. The centers also costs lots of money:
detention costs about 180 euros per person per day.
Costs for repatriation could rise to 13,000
euro per person. Between 2008 and 2012 it rose
budget for forced repatriation from 5.8 to 8.07
million.

117

REFUGEES

The proposals of the PTB +
1. Guaranteeing the right to asylum and refuge. The
should not be undermined. During the asylum procedure
people should have a right to care and
also receive. The CRC provides that
parents of undocumented children to daycare
become unconditionally.
Refugees from war zones have a
get proper protection.
2. Human rights also apply to those without
paper. Stop the conditionality of emergency
medical care. Protect also clandestine workers
against inhuman working conditions. The social
inspection then they should be able to do its job.
3. Right for undocumented children.
Children's rights apply to all children, with or without
paper. We defend the Kids's proposals
Parliament, the movement that fights for the recognition
of which children:
• Before the Immigration Service a
decision which will put an end to it
right of residence, it should be a serious investigation
run the risk of the children in case of
return and consider the integration of love
children.
• The Immigration Department should investigate
which the sustainable solutions for the
child concerned before a conclusion is made there
the right of residence of the family. In addition, it should be
child be heard.
• The environment of the child must be stable. Fedasil,
the government organization responsible for the care
during the asylum procedure, be sure
children can stay at one single location
so they can go to the same school and
the same language can learn throughout their
procedure.
4. Regularisation according to clear criteria and
an independent committee. The law must
objective criteria to be included on
"Durable anchoring" long asylum procedures,
stay that can not be attributed to the migrant,
minors, deported for ...
5. Abolition of the closed centers return.

118

SOUTH

GoLeft # 23. Opportunities for the South in order to
own legs to stand
Findings
A. The inequality is growing in the world.

1.2 billion people live in extreme poverty with
less than $ 1.25 per day. 2.47 billion people
have less than two dollars a day. Today possession
the richest 1 percent nearly half of all wealth
in the world, while the poorest 70 percent
put up with barely 3 percent. The 85 topmiljardairs together possess as much as half of
the world's population. This inequality is a time bomb.
Like come to us anywhere in the world unions
and people's organizations on the basic rights of the
population. As they are our face to face with
multinationals curtail their basic rights.
Although there is enough food for the entire population
on earth (and even more), still affects nearly 1 billion
people hungry. Professor Olivier De Schutter, wrote
as Special Rapporteur for the UN in its final report:
"The big agro-industrial groups have a
dominant position, they have a veto right in the
political system. "Today, even food and thus
hunger, a source of speculation.

Two. Belgium spends much less than
the statutory 0.7% of GDP
Development.

Belgium already promises to devote 0.7% of GDP
to development cooperation. That is a question
"community indirect interest," said competent minister
Jean-Pascal Labille. 0.7% is the norm even in the law.
But in 2013, Belgium received only 0.43% of GDP.
The past years we kept below 0.7%.
Moreover: in other technical expenses
policies belong, be recycled
The official budget for development
artificially boost. This is the case for cost
for the reception of refugees, the remission
Debt and sometimes even military "peacekeeping operations".
The European NGO Confederation has calculated that
Belgium in 2013 actually only 0.38 percent of real
development aid spent. Of that meager budget
a large piece goes to high wages of Belgian
top officials and Western consultants. Like there in the
South no competent people available or
can be formed.

Three. The debt in the third world
a brake on development.

Lead Heavy debts strangle countries of the Third
world. The past quarter century flowed through
"Reimbursements" about $ 530 billion of the South
to North. For years, Congo paid 50 million
dollars a month to the international debt
creditors, although the country had a health budget
of just $ 12 per year per capita. Tunisia wants
This year 2 billion to pay off debt, more than three times
Tunisian health budget.
Those debts, as in Congo and Tunisia,
contracted by dictatorships (Mobutu, Ben Ali)
under pressure from the West. It can not be that even
after the fall of those regimes populations still the
bill be presented.
The creditors and international financial institutions
(the International Monetary Fund, World Bank)
the debtor countries impose unacceptable
conditions for debt reduction: save
in the social sectors, public services
privatize and open throw the whole economy. Also
new loans to such conditions
coupled. In February 2014 instructed the relevant
committee of the European Parliament's green light for
a new loan to Tunisia, provided that the
Tunisian government would recapitalize the banks,
Block wages, company tax
downstairs and pick up pensions and health insurance
reform.

Four. The law of the jungle reigns
world trade.

The 0.7% norm is obviously mop with the tap
Belgium as in other areas of development
undermines other countries. Therefore, policy coherence
for development as important, our foreign and
Trade policy should develop in the South
not thwart. Consistency is often far away.
While with money from development cooperation
Peru wells are dug, Belgium close together
In other European countries, a free trade agreement
with Peru that the water supply and privatizes
is priceless for the poor.
Trade policy is a European competence.
Belgium is defending a "further liberalization" of
trade. Read: less customs duties and

119

SOUTH
less quality. The European Union seeks
to aggressively push through this policy, even at the cost
of development. For example, the European Commission threatened
In 2011, an arrangement that African and Caribbean
countries exempt from taxes and restrictions on exports
of their products to the EU to withdraw unless they
countries by the end of 2014 "partnership agreements" with
would approve the EU. Pure blackmail.
By free trade agreements have multinationals
free access to markets, public services
and natural resources in the South. That
is at the expense of the local economy, from the local
producers (farmers and fishermen) and also of the
consumers (higher prices).
The free trade agreement between the US and Mexico
placed the Mexican workers in competition
with the US. It made for a
decline in wages, worsening a
working conditions and an increase in the number of
precarious jobs. The EU's free trade agreements with
Central America, Colombia and Peru follow the same
logic.
Arbitration clauses give multinationals the right one
country to sue when parliament
the country wants to protect its citizens, for example
against unhealthy products. This makes all even
semblance of democracy swept away. Then there is also no
more question of protection of local production
or generic drugs for major
pharmaceutical companies.

Five. Our government is doing to "economic
diplomacy".

The government statement was: "The democratic
institutions, the rule of law and good governance
promote "in other countries, and" respect
human rights. " But Minister
Foreign Affairs Didier Reynders especially conducted a
"Economic diplomacy", aimed at closing
trade and investment agreements which economic
interests of our companies will be pursued.
So there are privileged relations with Saudi Arabia,
which violates human rights fully. In 2014 led
Princess Astrid an economic mission to that country.
The boss of Katoennatie Fernand Huts, if Saudi Arabia praise as "the promised land" because he
no taxes to pay. No word on
gross violations of human rights in that country
where women can not drive and where in 2013
79 executions were carried out.
In this "economic diplomacy" is the profit
motive, not human rights. Similarly, in our
relations with Congo. Belgian companies working for
the reform of the Congolese agricultural law that
access to land is limited to companies
which are owned in majority of Congolese
citizens. The president of the Chamber of
Commerce Belgium-Congo made himself strong that
he provision "the law was going to get." Minister
Reynders went personally to President Kabila plead
for its revision.

120

Six. Dexia Belgium and violate the UN resolutions on Palestine.

For seven years an illegal blockade of the true
Gaza. In going to the West Bank and East Jerusalem
Construction of further colonies. Israel ignored UN resolutions and
judgments of the International Court of Justice on the
Construction of the wall beside him. Belgium condemns
in words but deeds remain out. That leads to a
actual support of Israeli politics.
Richard Falk, the Special Rapporteur of the UN on
the human rights situation in the Occupied Palestinian
areas, accusing Dexia in his final report
human rights and the Geneva Conventions
breached. The Belgian government is the largest
shareholder of Dexia SA with 50 percent of
the shares. Dexia SA is in turn owner
66 percent of Dexia Israel Loans
unsubscribes for illegal settlers. Falk writes that
Belgium can be held responsible for
the damage caused by Dexia. It could be
result in compulsory payment of compensation and
war damage.
The three regional governments remain military equipment
import and export to and from Israel, with the Liege
airport as a hub. Some Belgian
Universities have agreements for research
ended with Israeli arms companies.
Products from Israeli settlements in Palestinian territory
are offered for sale by us without a
label shall indicate. The Walloon and Brussels
Governments organized trade missions to Israel.
The federal government signed in 2013 an agreement with
Israel strengthens relationships.

The vision of the PTB +
Back to the UN Charter.
In 1945 the United Nations was established to
humanity to "guard against the scourge of war".
The UN Charter established the basics
fixed "the sovereign equality of all members," the "
respect for the principle of equal rights and
self-determination for the peoples. " The basics
should be rehabilitated.
Democratic and social progress is always the
result was an internal dynamic: if the
people of that country conquers her rights,
without interference from foreign governments
their own agenda.
We pledge to cooperate with the countries of
the third world on the basis of equality, mutual
respect and non-interference in each others internal
affairs. Respect the personal development
of each country. Sovereignty is the basis for a
sustainable development. Since it serves Belgian

SOUTH
Development on tune and others
policy areas such as foreign trade and
Defense can not go against it.
In the food problem are those base
violated: the grip of monopolies
basic food staples is devastating. At its peak
the food crisis, when prices
Consumer soared, which have
monopolies brought in large profits. That is, the
paradox of a "free market" where monopolies
agro-industry wafer sway the less the
needs of the population are met, the more
Profits agribusinesses reap.
We argue for support of agro-ecological projects
and national food plan for the different
countries. But there must also be something structurally done
be the loss of agricultural land and
the power of small farmers. Structural
measures may also be an agrarian reform
aim which the needs of local farmers
being central. These agrarian reform will go
against the liberalization of international
food production and food trade and against all
policies that the grip of the multinationals
from the north to the agricultural sector in the South
enable.
Belgium has taken occasionally the lead on
debt cancellation for the poorest countries,
but it needs to do more. Our country must plead
for an overall debt relief for the poorest
countries and oppose the terms
imposed by the International Monetary Fund and the
World Bank. It must stand up for a general
cancellation of the debts of the South
multilateral institutions and major private banks.
A healthy collaboration with Congo.
For Congo we strive for good relations with
mutual benefit, in full respect for the
sovereign development and territorial integrity
the Democratic Republic of Congo. We
are intended also a real processing of the Belgian
colonial past. On the murder in 1961 of first
Minister Patrice Lumumba gave a parliamentary
Inquiry reluctantly admit that Belgium
it was responsible for. The role of Rwanda
and Uganda in the ongoing war in eastern Congo
with millions of direct and indirect
victims, is generally known. Military
cooperation with Rwanda and Uganda is out of the
evil as long as these countries continue to destabilize Congo.
Full recognition of the State of Palestine, sanctions
against Israel.
We support the rights of the Palestinian people
and promote a just and lasting peace
in the Near East. We have sent doctors to
Gaza and the West Bank and medical support there
centers. We performed it campaign against the support
Dexia in the illegal colonies on Palestinian territory.
For our policymakers should accept the peace, then

the first thing they must do a political boycott
Israel and take sanctions against that country, as long as
the Israeli government and the international law
Palestinian rights do not recognize. We propose
that Belgium no longer imports products from the Occupied
areas, and the colonies.
Assistance to countries seeking an independent
to develop policy.
We oppose free trade or unbalanced
association agreements such as those with Central America,
Colombia and Peru. If we do something internationally
poverty and inequality want to do, then
our foreign policy is no longer based on
the law of the strongest or the richest. Inequality
and unbalanced free trade agreements are not
coincidence but a political choice. Our country must
innovative and inspiring examples of
international solidarity actively support.
Latin America is experimenting with a new form
economic, social and cultural cooperation
and exchange. The ALBA alliance operates a
completely different logic than the free trade
the US wanted to impose on the American continent,
the FTAA. The ALBA proposes, inter alia literacy,
food security and health center.

The proposals of the PTB +
1. We want a foreign policy aimed at
cooperation with other countries out of poverty
eradicate and to peace and sustainable development
promotion.
2. We want to respect the basic principles of
UN Charter on sovereignty, and dialogue
and negotiations as a means to disputes
unloading.
3. We want a transparent commercial and
investment policy with the countries of the South,
respect for the social, health, law
on food and the environment.
• We conclude the public and social sectors from at
the negotiation and implementation of trade and
investment agreements.
• We demand guarantees for a broad public debate
Before taking out a trade agreement.
• No arbitration clauses in trade and
investment agreements that private companies
may sue democratic
decisions of countries.
• The OECD Guidelines for Multinational
companies and the United Nations Principles on
Companies and Human Rights should have a
get binding and conclusive character, with strict
responsibilities.

121

SOUTH
• We will endeavor to law firms with headquarters
in Belgium required the agenda for decent
work of the International Labour Organisation
(UN) and does so much for the whole of their
establishments.
4. We want a fully fledged development policy
allow by at least 0.7% of GDP
for earmarking. These must be over
pure development, remitted by
the government insured commercial debt and
measures for refugee policy not
included.
5. No savings on development cooperation.
Better development cooperation, support to
Belgian NGOs and their partners. Stop the creeping
defederalisation of development.
6. We demand a ban on speculation around
basic agricultural products.
7. A political cooperation on an equal footing,
with Congo. More active support to the reconstruction of
Congo.
No military cooperation with Rwanda and each other
land that Congo is destabilizing.
Clear apology from the Belgian government
for the murder of Patrice Lumumba, accompanied by a
reparation.
8. As long as Israel international law and the rights
Palestinians do not respect, we see the
Belgian attitude as follows:
• Each connection with the occupation through Dexia Israel stop
by canceling the ongoing credit.
• No new contract agreement; businesses
advise against doing business in the colonies or
companies that are linked to the occupation,
colonization or the plunder of Palestinian
raw materials.
• The import of Israeli products linked
with the occupation, the colonization and looting
Palestinian commodities prohibit.
• work within the EU for lifting each
Partnership with Israel, starting with the
Association Agreement.
• All military relations with Israel stop.

122

This is a script for a social society. "Social is super"
as our baseline in the 2014 election campaign says it is also the
expression of the party that we are.
We are at a crossroads in politics. Straight ahead is the road now thirty
years followed. A way of market forces and more people
fall out of the boat. It is the dead end of private wealth and
public poverty. Better we hit really left, to the future. That is a
ideological choice. For a society in which we believe in each other, and
not in the maximum benefit.
We blaze of ambition. Of course. Our society needs ambition,
to respond to the oligarchy of the banks to respond to the
neoliberal blindness of the political class.
We need innovation, social innovation, in reply to
All old-school recipes us in this situation of crisis and lethargy
have brought. This scenario is a social response to those throughout the
see society as a marketplace, where everything has a price and bought
and can be sold. Those people think that living together is the same
as competition between everybody. We say, "Our future is social."
This scenario also deals with the life, work and live in
people.
Cohabitation instead of the competition. Solidarity in place of a
dumping society where those who are not successful, is dumped. A
social future rather than a mad market economy in which
everyone is under constant pressure and is thrown back on himself.
Structural solutions instead of individualizing the problems.
We choose side: for the working class, the youth and all who
struggling in society.
Peter Mertens
chairman of the WPB

super

social
