FRANÇOIS BAYROU

FRANCE
SOLIDARITY

2
THE SOLIDARITY FRANCE
France is a great nation, admired
for centuries for its culture and
values: the human rights, creativity
artistic, his intellectual freedom ...
We were a respected country, providing
reference to many oppressed people.
The French are a great people. The
tests have not spared but every
generation has been able to draw so far in his faith
the future and in the values ​​of the Republic
pride and drive. We
are able again.
But in the early 21st century, here we are
faced with great difficulties.
Our society has undergone profound changes
not all progress. Everyone
clearly seen; the profit is not fair
shared. Big business appears too
often as the property of its own
shareholders, employees and instead is
not recognized as it should be. A
political public debt without brake
impoverishes us every day.
In addition, bad policy choices
Industrial led to a great sacrifice
part of our production apparatus
National. What we do know, we
must do: produce again in France
is not a utopia but a necessity. This
have done other neighboring nations, we
can.
At the same time, while the school
the Republic was long a model
for a large part of the world, the masters
no longer feel respected, assault on
which are driven many
students seem condemned by advance.
Young people have more and more difficulties
find the job that will make them self-reliant.
A people whose youth has no doubt
future. We must redefine the way
we want to learn.
However, I do not think the decline of
France. The fall that some are predicting
is by no means inevitable. We can
rebuild our common future if we
have the courage of lucidity, if we
have confidence in each other. TO
provided that clear pathways are traced
recovery.

This is what the election should serve
Presidential: indicate the path
allow everyone to find hope and
dignity around the values ​​that bind
our national unity.
Freedom. The French, they say, are slingers
quick to revolt. All the better if these are
Signs of a free people. It belongs
to us to remain in ensuring that
the law defines as essential rules
Common justice and understandable
all; the law is lost and when jargonne
made occasional text.
We need to urgently restore confidence
the people in his righteousness and his elect.
This imposes moralizing immediately
public life and ensure judges
real independence. Similarly,
Democracy can not remain alive and
close to everyone if local elected officials,
unions and associations retain their
autonomy. The state should stop belittling
intermediate bodies and practice a
creeping centralization.
Equality. Social justice has again become a
essential issue. The path of upward mobility
is blocked for too many of our compatriots.
The issue is not that we are all
same, but that everyone benefits from
two things: the minimum necessary to
guarantee his human dignity and
chances for him to express what he
best in him. This justifies that we
rethink the forms of solidarity
better defend the principle. I do not want
not that in the future the quality of care which
everyone will have access depend on its
financial capacity. I refuse a company
affects the lives of my fellow citizens to their
blue card.
Brotherhood. It is not by opposing
French to each other that will be built
a better future. National identity is
a beautiful ambition if it is conceived as
a common project for values
republican and humanist; it is only the
disastrous sign of fear if it is present
like a besieged citadel. This is
why I defend secularism simultaneously
and tolerance. Only secularism can guarantee
the diversity of opinions and beliefs;
only the spirit of tolerance allows to accept
differences. Openness to others remains

3
the best way to avoid unnecessary conflicts
and the triumph of man's sake here
and worldwide. It is a Republic of
respect I propose to build.
The crisis in France is the most
serious we lived for over
fifty years.
However, we will get out. France
is rich in talent, creativity, energy,
skills. On bad days will end at
requirement to choose a clear strategy for
ensure recovery of France.
But the first requirement is to understand
lucidly that the crisis does not come
elsewhere. It comes from us, bad
decisions accumulated through time,
for too long committed facilities of
demagogies multiplied. It is neither the fault
of globalization, nor the fault of finance
International nor the fault of Europe or the fault
of the euro, if fail to learn to read
for children, or if we lost sectors
Production our neighbors and kept
developed. It is our responsibility. And it's
a great reason for optimism. For if errors
and mistakes are with us, we the
correct.
This is the best news in the time of crisis
we live: our destiny is ours.

CHAPTER 1
RECOVERY
PUBLIC FINANCES
The recovery of our country begin
by restoring our finances
public. For the first duty of the state,
is to put his affairs in order! The
first duty of government is to put the
France ready to get out of debt,
because the indebtedness of families and
that of the state, it is the same anguish and
even addiction.
One goal: to balance the budget
in 2016 by distributing equally the effort
of fiscal consolidation between
income and expenditure to the tune of 50 billion
of lower expenses of € 50 billion €
increase revenues; for this purpose, enter the
"Golden rule" of budgetary discipline in the
Constitution;

Acting on spending: keep the level
of public expenditure in 2013 and 2014
levels of spending in 2012; re-examine
depth all missions, organization
and the lifestyle of the State (savings
operating subsidies ...); conclude
a financial moderation pact
with local authorities, clarify
skills and pooling certain services;
consolidate and streamline expenditure
Social Security (reorganization of services
and benefits);
Acting on revenue in respect of tax loopholes
and social, giving a general plane shot
15% over 3 years and eliminate non niches
based, such as tax exemption
Income overtime,
"Niche Cope", or the deduction of interest
Title loans to equity;
assign a moderate increase in VAT
reducing the budget deficit to the tune
1 point in 2012 and if growth is
not at the rendezvous, a point in 2014; under
equity, make the income tax more
progressive, by the passage of the wafer
41% to 45% and the creation of a wafer
50% for incomes over € 250,000
per unit; Transforming ISF Contribution
Solidarity on Heritage (CSP) more
simple and transparent. For Heritage
above 1 million €, given the
Current unchanged allowances, income
theoretical 1% is incorporated in the base
the Income Tax. Thus the progressivity is
assured and solidarity as well;
Establish a tax on
International financial transactions
European partners;
Create a High Authority against
fiscal and social fraud, composed of
judiciary, the fight against all forms
fraud.

CHAPTER 2
PRODUCTION
France is poorer. It impoverishes more
faster because we buy without stops
we do not sell. This is no longer tolerable.
I want that we find the place that was
ours, that of a large exporting country,
creator and proud of its productions.

4
My goal is simple: we need to
new produce in France. For that,
we must recreate an environment more
supports our businesses, strengthen our
fabric of SMEs and support the world
craftsmen, traders and professions
liberal.

time auto-entrepreneur status
and helping the recipient to join the status
common law;

An environment
supports the
production

Allow businesses to less than 50
employees, artisans and traders
create employment without charges for
two years if it recruits a young first
employment or an unemployed as a CDI
(provided you previously failing
deleted workstation);

Create a National Commissioner for
strategies. This will light structure
aims to mobilize and coordinate all
actors Economic Recovery
countries and define sector by sector policy
long-term production;
Simplify administrative constraints and
tax because a company like
a family, needs visibility, not a
legal landscape in perpetual motion;
the image of the "Small Business Act"
US, establish specific rules to
small businesses to ease their access
credit, public procurement, subcontracting, and create a single window, with
a single administrative correspondent
the company to accompany, inform
of his rights, and prevent penalties; divide
two administrative reports;
Networking of large companies
and SMEs to create complementarity
profitable, encouraged by an advantage
tax when there investment in
SMEs;
Create A funding tool
A financial institution, regionalized,
involving local communities, dedicated to
financing of SMEs and companies
intermediate size; create a savings account
industry: economic reset the
France guess part of savings
is directed to the industry in the form of
new resources; complete credit
research tax credit by impôtinnovation; restore tax incentives, reduced
in 2010, for the benefit of those investing in
unlisted companies; in total, the state must
ensure at least equal treatment
SMEs and large companies in the CAC 40; Limit

Launch a debate leading to a
gradual reduction of a significant share
contributions based on labor;

A label
"Product in France"
Create an independent label that
consumers to know the
from, or part of French products
they purchase; involve consumers
in the process of "producing in France";
developing the brand image of "
produced in France "; focus on quality
by extending to 5 years warranty period
legal products;

A new economy
social solidarity
Supporting the social and solidarity economy
facilitating access to public procurement
and promoting social innovation;
promote the distribution of all forces in
short circuit from producer to consumer,
promote production cooperatives
and distribution, creating a new type
enterprise, "the HOSEA" (companies Subject
Social Environmental and Economic). These
HOSEA companies will see their tax rate
minus the companies; Modulate taxation
companies based on the results and
efforts on liability
social, based on European standards
Commons;

Digital
Create an autonomous economic zone
in the internet world, in which
will experience a number of rules

5
implemented by entrepreneurs
themselves;

but fear the litigation hire
expensive;

Develop a national strategy
development based on expertise
the National Council and the digital
all actors concerned;

Extend the role of works councils in
negotiation of working conditions and
remuneration;

Extend the benefits to business angels
tax whose capital fund benefit
risk and reconfigure OSEO and the FSI;
Adopt a positive approach to compliance
Copyright by developing
the download service at low prices;
Making Open Data
nonpersonal a guaranteed right for all
citizens and encourage companies to open
access to their data;

Open
the
employees
the
advice
Administration
and
the
committees
of
corporate earnings, with the right to
vote; Limit excessive salaries in
excluding expenses deductible under
the corporate tax remuneration (fixed
and bonus) higher (beyond 50 times
minimum wage) ; Delete stock options, except
for start-ups.

Right to training
consolidated

Social dialogue
refounded

Create an effective right to any training
Throughout life, embodied by the opening
a continuing education personal account;

Recreate an environment favorable to
back in production in France, this
will be with the workers, employees,
frames, all those who are
the forces of France. Through
recognized intermediary bodies, they will participate
full development and choices
their businesses.

Support vocational training which is
access to the first factor of employment,
career security and
conversion. For this to overhaul
credits through a national agency
whose mission will be transparent and
strategy, ordering of the sector
professional training ;

Renewing social dialogue to adapt
the company's external constraints. The State
facilitator is not the decision maker
Dialogue will focus on the following aspects:

Streamline the labor market
pooling more ways to Pole
Employment, CCI, houses and employment
local mission to capture jobs
in companies and in particular small and micro
SMEs;

• Negotiation of framework agreements fixing
in different branches, the specification
loads of the discussion on the time, duration
labor and wage developments;
• Simplification of labor law to review
the provisions become incomprehensible
and inapplicable. The CSD should be strictly
reserved for cases provided by law (missions
fixed-term, seasonal work ...).
A single employment contract - CDI - must
now be the rule, based on a
gradual consolidation of rights,
will reveal the amount of
compensation payable in case of dismissal and
decrease the use of labor court, along
and uncertain for the parties. It is an element
Liberation for those who would

An agriculture
competitive, preserved
and sustainable
The common agricultural policy in the
part of the ongoing reform on the horizon
2013 will not defended with three objectives
negotiable:
• The first: to defend not only
productions, but the fabric producers,
viable family farms whose
our societies need to maintain their

6
balance and defend rurality. The first
objective of the common agricultural policy
is to defend the farmers who are the
producers and that drive the agricultural fabric
our country;
• Second: allow productions
Agricultural be paid at fair prices, that
farmers can make a living without
need external intervention powers
public and, given maintenance
space and natural heritage which we
their task from the benefit of all
society, obtaining agricultural price and
agricultural income that offset these efforts
maintenance;
• Third: get agriculture
environmentally, by
a
agriculture
reasoned,
by
a
Organic farming with circuits
short marketing and who will be ellemême defense of our heritage
nature
Encourage French wine industry which
has considerable assets; revitalize
chains of our food industries;
foster a new design
fishing boats, consuming less
diesel and scientific co-expertise on
Fishing by bringing together scientists appointed
by the political authorities and scientists
designated by fishermen;

A finance work
the real economy
The economy
financial,
that
from
There
speculation is poised to dominate and
sometimes destroying the real economy, that of
production, distribution, goods and
services. To end this domination,
five principles are essential:
Strengthen the powers and independence
European regulator facing the lobby
Bank, impose rules of caution
the highest preference financing
the real economy. More risk-taking is
more high it must be subject to rules
penalties on equity;
To study the separation of deposit banks
and investment banks;

Strictly regulate derivatives markets
of raw materials to prevent
speculative operations;
Actually fight against the paradise
tax penalizing institutions
bank who use;
Put an end to abusive pricing in
increasing transparency between banks

France, model
sustainability
The mutation we know is a
step irreversible, to another model
environmental. We can no longer return
back. It is a production and a
more sustainable consumption, better
respect of scarce resources, the fight against
global warming we
we must tackle. It is the goal for ecology
positive, entirely at the service of man
and nature. France must be pioneer
in the matter.
Financing for Development Policy
Sustainable: to create an investment fund
dedicated to sustainable development, powered
by carbon quotas from the protocol
Kyoto, private investment, and savings
popular. It will invest in efficiency
energy housing and transport,
in the capital of industrial energy projects
renewable, research in the field
new energy, and restoration
and preservation of biodiversity; Create
environmental malus product
most harmful to consumption
the environment ;
Renovating old buildings to limit our
CO2 emissions: simplify and expand
significantly Certificate mechanism
energy savings; Create an organization
public / private partnerships to support projects
energy renovation, intervening
directly
near
of
individuals
owners or businesses for the
counselor in the most effective work
to consider and to track work
so that they are carried out with the
as efficiently as possible; Modulate tax
land built according to performance
energy buildings;

7
Organize a debate on the future of
electricity production in France, from the
the beginning of the mandate, which aims
to define a scenario and a roadmap
to 2030, with appointment
progress every 3 years. This roadmap
should ensure both the supply
Electrical necessary, minimize
the use of carbon energy aiming
a massive development of energy
Renewable expected to reach in 2030
40% of French electricity production;
For the nuclear transition energy,
security guarantee facilities is not
negotiable;
Ensure the independence of the Agency
Nuclear Safety of integrating experts
European and giving citizens
the opportunity to put questions
obligation for the agency to give
public response;
Stabilize and simplify regulations
administrative and tax for energy
renewables over the next 20 years;
Create a European energy consortium
renewable, like EADS, in line with
our European partners;
Preserving biodiversity: limit
soil sealing in France
term up to 10% of the territory,
modulating including state grants
based on the mastery of sprawl
Urban;
Modulate in a European context tax
companies based on their performance
environmental;

CHAPTER 3
EDUCATE
Our school was long our pride. It
continued and generous ambitions
knew its promises. Category
Popular it offered the possibility of
social mobility; to all, it was providing
knowledge base allowing them to insert
in society.
In a few decades it has lost its
efficiency and its influence.
I want to give back to France the best
World Education.

The school of success
It
rests
sure
a few
certainties.
The Valid teaching is that which unites
the acquisition of solid knowledge
personal development. One is support
on the other. It is in the experience, know-how, the humanity of the masters is in
the first and second degree, the deposit
progress of education. The key to equality
opportunities in school and in life,
it is the language: it is the priority because it
gives access, at the same time, the universe
knowledge, feelings and
creation. Finally, the systematic exploitation
aptitude is the condition of the setting
confidence, self-esteem of students.
Write a contract between school progress
and the nation that will guarantee the maintenance of
specify the means and goals that the nation
assigned to his school; Exclude violence
school and rebuild the rule of respect between
students and teachers in the classroom as
in the school courtyard ; Define methods
teaching through the evaluation of results:
it is the government or the president
the Republic of slicing methods
Learning is to the class, the result
effective, provided no method
is excluded path for ideological reason; Fix
objective mastery of reading and
writing at the entrance to the college. If the student
is in default, an adapted pedagogy must
allow it to rebuild its report
writing; Make debate the Parliament of principle
programs and their readability;
Keep the number of teachers and
the decree that defines their status; Defending
national competitive examinations that are
the most republican and most legitimate way
to select teachers seconds
degree; Rebuilding a year of training
teacher alternating with exercise
in the classroom and transmission of experience
other teachers; Make evaluation
more objective teachers, reserving
teacher ratings of teachers
experienced evaluators; Ending
administrative overhead; Giving leaders
establishment of new opportunities for
eg direct recruitment of replacements
volume management hours to organize
individualized or small group support;

8
For students: spend 50% of time
working in primary school language
French; Facilitate early identification of
psycho difficulties; Limit employment
time student at maximum in 28h
reconstructing school timetables; Thinking
number of students per class depending on the
classroom reality, according to a simple principle:
difficile class small number of students in
balanced class and good level, more
Many students; Rearrange time
School to promote the arts
and intellectual creativity; Restore
Education
from
history and geography
Terminale S other than as a
option; Organize duties under
the establishment under the supervision of
guardians, teachers of the institution
if they so wish, to retired teachers
or mostly students who will receive
a scholarship to become familiar with and
education; Creating colleges "outside the
walls "for students in check, with
pedagogies adapted to allow
reconstruction and return, if they wish,
the classical pathway; Inform students on
they do not control, for example,
codes of behavior, clothing,
language ...;
For parents: Create schools
associations of parents, to help those
who have difficulty supporting their
child;
Allow students to teaching
professional visitors to trades through
information on jobs throughout
college, discovering businesses and
construction sites; Developing learning and
alternation in education; Develop
e-learning;
Open schools in
outside school hours on demand
Company education;
Consider organizing a bachelor
literary and scientific excellence, because
that the obligation to choose between literary
and science for a number
of students is too difficult choice; Rebuilding
the articulation between secondary and higher education in
rethinking the Terminal as a real
preparation for entry into teaching
superior ; Create a State Agency
orientation that tells the truth to youth

when they engage in training
providing the actual numbers of what the
expected at the output;

Sport
Defend the European principle of fair play
Financial (we do not spend more than what
we earn) and regulate sports salaries;
Reinforce doping controls thanks
the intervention of independent doctors;
Recognize the work done by
sports federations and improve their
Relations with the National Education;
Encourage sport in schools through
the reorganization of school time;
Preserving the French and European system
bridges between amateur sport and the
professional sports;

Higher Education
and Research
Higher education is the culmination
the building which school, college and high school
constitute the base. To get to the point, I
say that our higher education
its modernization should be pursued, in
our research that it must continue to aim
international excellence and innovation
it deserves to be amplified in our
countries.
As for the method, I hope, not a
forced march towards a hasty selection,
but a concerted control of change,
coaching community
academic, a more effective control of the
research.
Preserve the national public service
higher education in the status of
Teachers in awarding diplomas
and its mode of operation
must be based on cooperation and not on
competition between institutions and
people ; Developing autonomy
Universities and review their governance
ensure more democracy and collegiality;
Entrust the recruitment of teachers
disciplinary specialists commissions,
Allocate resources to universities so
more transparent and less rigid through

9
a five-year contract which will be the subject of a
real negotiation with the State and in liaison
with local authorities who wish.
Open a dialogue to define
the organization and the resources needed to
Higher Education and Research
to enable it to meet the challenges of the future;
Hire a merger of universities and
large schools; Rethinking the organization
and the roles of the different licensing channels, DUT, preparatory classes - to offer
each student adapted training
its needs; To better prepare
Students in the labor market, complete
general training with a possibility
linked training; Encouraging
universities to become central actors
the formation continues ;
Adopt a framework law for
Research (2013-2017), which will aim to
give a perspective to research,
clarify priorities and roles of
various organizations; Rebalance funding
audience research for support
based laboratories; Decrease the weight of
administrative constraints and evaluation
research management; Valuing the course
by encouraging doctoral partners
Social recognize the doctorate in
collective agreements and encouragement
the recruitment of young doctors in the
senior civil service, national and local.
Improve student life by opening
Night of university facilities,
libraries, sports facilities and venues
life, provided by students benefiting
a grant for this purpose; Open a reflection
to correct, in the sense of greater
equity, the current support scheme. (scholarships,
accommodation, half from tax ...); Hire a
housing construction program
promoting cooperative students roommate
and social diversity.

Culture
Culture must be part of the
recovery of France.
Insert art education in
school programs;
Establish agreements

past cultural development between the state and
local authorities, for a period of 5
years (the project contracts State-regions)
and a decreasing start-up aid
small organizations and companies; Encourage
cultural patronage as is already done
for works of art or restoration
heritage ; Enter the specifications
subsidized spectacles of creation
additional representations
multiply the number of spectators at
reduced cost;
To pass legislation on the rehabilitation of
heritage ;
Be ratified by the Charter of France
regional or minority languages; Develop
work in the Francophone sector
a determined policy to promote
our language;

CHAPTER 4
A NEW
SOCIAL CONTRACT
This is the fate of the weakest of his
we recognize the value of a company. And
this is the message it sends to the world
we measure the greatness of a Nation.
In both cases, we see that
our model, even here the universal and our
social pact, even here unshakable risk
to discard before our eyes, while leading
right to increased inequalities and
hardening of social relations. I do not
not want such a drift.
For me the path is clear: I want
rebuild a welcoming France, anxious
the fate of each and that leaves no one
on the roadside. I want to be defined
for France secured a new contract
Social that will enable everyone to consider
the future with confidence.

Retirement
The reform of the pension system is not
completed. A step has been taken but it is not
down the road, in terms of financing
as justice, especially for decision
into account the hardship and the situation
women.

10

Establish a pension plan by points.
It is a system based on the principle of
distribution which we are committed and
on individual rights acquired by the employee.
This reform has several advantages:
• balance between contributions and pensions,
Once the reform implementation (after a
transitional period required)
• transparency for employees that will at all
time that his pension will, according
his retirement date
• justice system because it allows better
recognition of the hardship, rhythms
work commitment period
associative ...
• freedom, each able to retire,
sooner or later, depending on a choice
personal life and possible redemption
points
Rebalance small pensions (farmers,
traders, spouses) through a plan
catching part of the new framework law
architecture that will redefine retirement.

Health, addiction,
handicap
Health or balance or fairness are
guaranteed today. Our health care system,
recognized for its quality in the curative is
less effective in the preventive. He drives,
if we do not undertake corrections
necessary, to a two-speed medicine,
one for the rich and another for the poor.
As for addiction, almost everything remains
to face the prospects of elongation
of life and loss of autonomy for more
age.
Establish a "Shield health"
intended to cover people leaving the
social minima and that are not taken into
over by Universal Health Coverage
(CMU) financed through better management
Money allocated for additional support
health; Reflect on mutual
Universal following the example of what happens in
Alsace and Moselle;

Reorient deeply Policy
public health towards prevention;
Make
confidence
the
doctors
hospital and recognizing the city
primacy of the medical act on constraints
administrative; Change the Hospital Act,
Patients, Health and Territory (HPST) to switch
a purely logical and manager
administrative network to a building
in the territory that gives priority to
patients and physicians; Establish a balance
the Convention on the price of the consultation
medical; Propose a new definition
the "numerus clausus" with medical
additional places accompanied by a
10 year service commitment in a
deficit area;
Establish medical services nearby
(ER, maternity, outpatient care) in
upstream technical platforms hospitals,
to fight against the "medical deserts" and
guarantee care to all patients and all
territories ;
Upgrade the general medical sector
during medical studies with
establishment of instructional materials
specific, internships earlier and more
Many;
Initiate a "health plan" to prevent
the
piping
addictive
of
young people
(awareness, information and prevention) and
mobilizing medical students to fight
against addiction in institutions
school; Encourage policy
preventive-health in primary school (Care
dental, glasses, obesity ...)
Develop health policy
work and disease prevention
Professional;
Create an independent Authority
Alert, including health and
Health Safety and composed of experts
totally independent, whose mission
will trigger the alarm with time
tangible elements. This authority may
be seized by citizens, associations,
practitioners, pharmacists ...;
Fight against overconsumption
drugs and the proliferation of
drugs medical service
insufficient;

11
Launch a plan "Given the dependence"
which will capitalize on the experience
and which will play all the available levers
medical and pharmacological research,
improving care in
retirement homes and hospitals,
building a more affordable offer for
families, caregivers and supporting implementation
implementation of national solidarity; Combine
national solidarity and risk pooling
and forward a strong incentive approach
Provident combining national solidarity
and sharing;
Make effective the accessibility legislation
public buildings, by establishing a
cartography, planning and agenda
so that all buildings and public transport
accessible; Further integration
of disabled children in schools
ordinary; Assist and train teachers
their care;

Housing
More than fifty years after the call of the Abbot
Peter, the housing issue is not
resolute in our country. Dispersion
responsibilities, the multiplicity of actors
make this site yet a priority,
is far from advancing as fast as
situation requires. Inadequate housing, the youth
difficulty accessing autonomy, eviction,
SDF, this reality demonstrates our delay.
I consider that housing should be
great national cause for the five
coming years.
So I will drive action on shutters
following:
Establish a mutual housing
Mandatory for tenants which guarantees
payment risks and removes deposits;
This will foster the return on the market
vacant housing;
To increase the percentage of the Act
Solidarity and Urban Renewal
(SRU) at 25% social housing in
voltage areas and establish blocking
state grants for municipalities that
not respect; Imposing social diversity
in real estate programs;
Convene a National Conference
Housing that will define the objectives

National Construction, declined by
region with decentralized aids
Stone and testing of management
decentralized aid to the person;
Create 'social cohesion prefects
and housing "in tension areas
in social housing that will
take all responsibility
"Urbanism" to licensing
building;
Create rents observatory that will
public rents, area by area and enforceable
third parties. The tax will be used to
correct abuses; Create Observatories
of Local needs to help elected to
projecting to the future of their city, promote
intercommunal, balance supply of
housing, catalyze the construction;
Establish housing options
"Super social" by grouping 3 or 4 units
social around a community organizer. This
type of property will be taxed in relay
each local habitat;
Establish programs
sale of State land for the purpose of
social construction or commitment
Accessible exit price;
Implement these actions by law
programming of five about a
new social cohesion plan.

A society of respect
France is plural as it has elsewhere
always. Stop to pit French
against each other, to build a wall
hatred between nationals and foreigners
that we welcome. Likewise, for
our social contract to be meaningful,
the urgency is to fight against all
discrimination against all intolerances.
Create a Ministry of Equality, who will
all necessary equalities in France
and the fight against discrimination;
Generalizing for merit scholarships
better recognize successes from
immigration; Develop surveys on
diversity to better assess the effectiveness of
policy against discrimination;
Insert into law on New Regulations

12
Economiques (NRE) specific indicators
gender, age, disability and origin
and force companies with more than 500
employees like administrations making
Encrypted progress on these criteria;

CHAPTER 5
A NEW CONTRACT
DEMOCRATIC

Create a shared life contract
without connotation of married life, which
enable secure and encourage the
common life ;

The balance of institutions

Recognize the right to vote in elections
Municipal foreigners residing in
legally in France for at least
10 years ;
Conduct a rigorous policy against
foreigners who enter the territory of
illegally, but regularize foreign
undocumented in working condition,
insertion, housing and control of
language ;
Enhance accountability for parity in
part of moralization referendum
public life that we finally sort of
this anomaly that puts France at the 61st
among the countries in the world instead
Women in public life;
Ensuring equal pay for men
women and penalizing financially
low virtuous businesses and fight
to the proliferation of term contracts
determined that hit part time
particularly women, under
the implementation of the labor contract
one;
Enact a framework law on violence
domestic, to improve prevention and
Accompanying the women who are
victims ;
Recognize the parental relationship with the
second parent to protect the rights
the child adopted by a single
homosexual. For couples wanting a
engagement, recognizing equal rights
as a mayor and union received
enrolled in the registry office.

The French have lost confidence in
their institutions and their leaders. They
are skeptical about the capacity of power
Political change the course of things, they
doubts about the independence of their justice
feel a sense of insecurity in their
employment and in their daily lives. If it is not
not out of this depressed climate, distrust,
including among citizens, could become the
rule, destroying the foundation of living together.
I want to restore trust between
citizens and their representatives. On June 10,
day 1 round of legislative elections, I
submit to referendum a framework law on
moralization of public life that solve a
Once all questions that remain
insoluble in ages and decades
lack of will.
Dial a tightened Government
less than 20 members; To cease the simultaneous
the mandate and function to a local
MEPs limit for senators;
Delete delegations to vote
Parliament, with compulsory attendance
and public nature of all votes;
Delete the myriad of micro-parties
complacency, for bypass
funding rules of political life and
election campaigns; Prohibit for
ten years the return of elected public life
convicted of corruption;
Adopt a fairer electoral law
most representative, with reduction
number of deputies to 400, the
¾ be elected by majority vote and present
¼ proportional. This combination
allow representation of all
currents exceeding the threshold of 5%
votes cast and the constitution of a
majority in the National Assembly; Reduce,
in a similar proportion, the number
Senators; Recognize the white vote, in
all elections, as expressed suffrage;
Strengthening the rule of hommesfemmes parity;

12

13
Set by law conflicts of interest, such as
the interference between the performance of a mission
public service and the satisfaction of interest
private; Mandating a statement
privately before taking office,
extend the rules of incompatibility, create a
National Authority Life Ethics
Public can be entered by any citizen;
Assert the independence of the media.
Develop new applicable rules
the detention of media to capital
better ensure pluralism of information;
Terminate the appointment of presidents
public broadcasting by the Head of State;
Create a large outdoor audiovisual service,
with the rationalization of offerings and TV5
France 24; Preserving the Independence of
Agence France-Presse;
Exclusively favor the competence,
experience, personal ability and
loyalty to progress within the State;
Establish a new procedure
the highest employment to avoid
convenience appointments: submission,
after hearing a real approval
Parliamentary;
Appoint a unity government
National composed of men and women
from major thought of families
our country, except extremes
do not adhere to the values ​​on which
our civilization rests; Open majority
Parliamentary all those and all those who
recognize the presidential project
chosen by the French May 6, capable of
prioritize the national interest over the interest of a
left ;
Embodying an impartial presidency. The
President is the one who inspires political action,
which guarantees the achievement. It has a duty
to unite, to represent all the people
whole. Therefore, there can not be a leader
party; Report regularly to
French major issues of our country, of
Europe and the world; Reduce the salary
President and ministers 10%; Reduce
lifestyle Elysee 20%;
Entrust the Prime Minister's conduct
government action and the implementation
guidance of the presidential project. The
Prime Minister must have the autonomy
necessary to define the ways and means.

It fulfills a coordinating role
Ministerial permanent, enhanced by its
political responsibility before the Assembly
national;
Strengthen the powers of Parliament
is the place of democratic debate, the
making of laws and monitoring of the action
government; Create Authority
responsible for independent verification
the application of the law;

The intermediate body
Alongside political democracy and
elected institutions, there is democracy
social and intermediate. They are
for us the State of partners, the
deal as equals, considering in
listening to them, respecting them. Because he
no viable democracy without bodies
intermediaries, without unions, free press
free, free associations.
Open from the end of the electoral process,
depth work which may take
several months on the development of democracy
Social in France, and whose objective is to
enshrine its principles;
Present the 1901 Act and raise awareness of the
creation of association in programs
civic education in college and high school;
Establishing a legal framework for the use of
voluntary associations, defined and protected by the
law. Without touching the principle of free
commitment, allow a refund
easier for expenses incurred by volunteers,
and taking into account their achievements and
experience; Strengthen the High Council
in associations, to make it a real place
debates and exchanges where associations
may speak;
Making commitment scholarships by
example for young people or people
restated to support actions
recognized associations;
Recognize the associative commitment
APL for obtaining a
diploma ;
Ensuring stability associations
by supporting the signing of contracts
multiannual targets wherever

14
possible, to reduce "red tape";
Ensuring that every euro will be contracted
actually one euro paid to the association;

The territories of
Republic

The independence of the
justice

Straighten France, build a project
solidarity is tending to equality for all
but everywhere. If France is
enriched by the diversity of its territories, it
also suffers from a huge disparity
between them, which will keep up our
citizens access to basic services.
I want to restore equality between the territories,
prerequisite for the advent of
social justice.

Justice in France was never really
independent despite all
promises of reforms, left and
of right. But there can not be any people
free without a free and serene justice. I want
establish once and for all that guarantee.
The common law will be respected only if
everyone knows that it applies the same
way to the powerful as to the smallest.
Ensure the independence and effectiveness of
Justice. Approval appointment
the Minister of Justice by a majority
qualified of the National Assembly; It will define
criminal policy of the nation and will
accountable to the National Assembly,
by which it can be censored; Rebalancing
the Supreme Judicial Council
guarantee its independence and name
prosecutors on the recommendation of the council;
Prohibit individual instructions
the prosecution;
Ensuring equal access for all to justice. Endow
each court of public service access
to justice responsible for guiding and advising
litigants. Develop mediation
avoid unnecessary and costly procedures.
Simplify the law and strengthen the obligation
motivated judgments. Provides assistance
additional hardware and magistrates
clerks to carry out their missions;
Ensure both the effectiveness of sanctions
all offenses and prevention of recidivism.
Develop alternatives to prison
first offenders; Maintain justice
specialized for minors under
international commitments of the
France. Engage system reform
prison to give him his dignity and
bring it in line with standards
European. Focus on training
and vocational and preparing
reintegration of the detainee to his release.
During the time of detention, deprivation
of liberty must be the only sanction that can
receive.

Re-establish a climate of trust between
elected officials and the State and conclude a pact
Financial moderation between communities
local and state accompanied revised
endowments redirected towards reduction
inequalities between territories; Clarify
skills between departments and
areas (transport, education, economy) and
propose the pooling of certain services;
Make their local elected assemblies
fiscal autonomy; Let the local officials
power to create intermunicipal according
geographic relevance and coherence
projects ;
Develop a fiscal equalization between
local authorities; Maintain services
local public in the territories and
relocate where they disappeared; Cover
as quickly as possible throughout the territory
very high speed;
Establishing a "citizen assessment" of
promises of elected officials, open and experts,
associations and citizens and allowing
to annually review the policy
conducted by the government in favor of
suburbs;
Encourage the installation of medical homes
first aid to maintain
Medicine proximity;
Revitalize rural areas by
coherent policies: 1) Diversifying activities
promote renewable energies,
New agricultural and forestry production,
telecommuting, promoting tourism
Green; 2) Propose new sources
financing to companies: credits
equity or guarantee more systems
operational; 3) Provide better access to

15

la commande publique dans le cadre d’un
« small business act » à la française.

et répression pourra produire des effets
significatifs.

Lancer un plan « mobilité et numérique »
visant à favoriser l’usage des nouvelles
technologies en vue de réduire les mobilités
(télétravail, transport à la demande, autopartage, co-voiturage via les smart-phones) ;
Réexaminer notre réglementation nationale
en matière de transports routiers et agir pour
une convergence rapide des normes et des
pratiques européennes ; Rationaliser l’usage
des infrastructures routières existantes tout
en confortant un maillage diversifié de nos
territoires ;

Enraciner des forces de sécurité, de
surveillance et de prévention sur le terrain ;

Adapter notre politique de sécurité routière
aux territoires avec la prise en compte, par
les forces de l’ordre, d’une cartographie
des risques pour réduire encore le nombre
de victimes sur les routes ; Demander la
généralisation des systèmes anti-démarrage
en cas d’alcoolémie excessive ; Promouvoir
l’extension de l’implantation de radars
pédagogiques ; Faire enseigner le code de
la route au collège ;

Instaurer une sanction – réparation
immédiate avec des mesures éducatives
pour chaque premier délit, particulièrement
pour les très jeunes mineurs ;

Outre-mer
Créer des zones franches globales à
périmètre large ; Faire de l’Outre-mer
le laboratoire français de l’excellence
énergétique durable ; Bâtir un plan massif
de lutte contre l’illettrisme ; Créer un bouclier
santé pour les plus fragiles ;
Rompre, après des Etats-généraux de la
vie chère Outre-mer, avec les éléments qui
entretiennent une véritable bulle de prix
élevés ;
Créer un Office de transports de l’Outremer qui gérera l’enveloppe de continuité
territoriale et passera des conventions
quinquennales tarifaires pour assurer au
maximum la continuité territoriale.

Sécurité et tranquillité
La sécurité est un droit fondamental. Elle est
malmenée par la montée des incivilités, des
violences à la personne, des atteintes aux
biens dont les personnes vulnérables sont
les principales victimes. Seule une politique
cohérente dans ses objectifs et dans sa durée
agissant sur les causes, associant prévention

Désigner des sous-préfets dans les quartiers
sensibles pour coordonner toutes les actions
de l’Etat (sécurité, éducation, prévention,
services publics…) avec obligation de
résidence.
Renforcer la vidéosurveillance dans ces
quartiers en complément d’un dispositif
humain ;

Soutenir les associations d’aide aux
victimes dans leurs démarches de soutien et
d’accompagnement.

CHAPITRE 6
LA FRANCE EN EUROPE
ET DANS LE MONDE
La France n'est pas une nation comme les
autres. Elle n'est vraiment elle-même que
lorsqu'elle s'adresse au monde. Le message
de la France, en termes de paix, d'équilibre,
de respect des droits humains demeure
d'actualité. Cinquième puissance, présente
dans le monde par ses espaces ultra-marins,
elle doit aussi entretenir une défense à la
hauteur de son rang. A ceux qui proposent le
repliement sur l'hexagone ou, ce qui revient
au même, le protectionnisme à nos frontières,
j'oppose vigoureusement l'âme généreuse
qui a fait l'histoire et la singularité de notre
pays.

Affaires étrangères
La France doit promouvoir une politique
étrangère dynamique et sereine qui
s’appuiera sur la vision d’une Europe solidaire,
c’est-à-dire :
Engager
une
nouvelle
pratique
diplomatique qui rompe avec l'opacité des
réseaux parallèles et qui se fonde sur une

16
nouvelle légitimité en renforçant le contrôle
du Parlement ; Proposer une profonde
réforme de l’Organisation Mondiale du
Commerce pour intégrer les exigences
sociales et environnementales ; Proposer le
renforcement de la voix des pays en voie
de développement dans la gouvernance
mondiale en élargissant le Conseil de
Sécurité des Nations Unies et en poursuivant
la réforme des droits de vote au FMI et à
la Banque Mondiale ; Proposer d’instituer
un « crime contre la paix et la sécurité
internationale » sanctionné par la Cour
Pénale Internationale englobant notamment
les actes de prolifération, de terrorisme et de
piraterie ; créer une Agence Mondiale de
l’Environnement ; Inscrire dans un accord
multilatéral de coopération contre l’évasion
fiscale et le blanchiment les principes du G20
et du G8 en la matière ;
Promouvoir les relations économiques
mondiales sur le fondement de deux
principes : le nécessaire équilibre Nord-Sud et
la recherche d’une véritable réciprocité ;
Organiser un grand sommet Union
Européenne – BRICS (Brésil-Russie-Inde-ChineAfrique du Sud) qui formalisera une nouvelle
alliance entre l’Europe et les pays émergents
dont le socle sera la sortie des populations de
la pauvreté ;

Europe
L'Europe est aujourd'hui à un tournant de
son histoire. Ou elle retrouvera son inspiration
initiale de volonté et de solidarité, ou elle
perdra sa singularité, je pourrais dire son âme.
Le rêve européen n'est pas mort mais il faut le
ranimer. Il y a urgence. Je veux porter devant
les Français les principes d’un nouvel élan
européen, qui sera le leur, comme citoyens,
une Europe accessible, compréhensible,
mobilisatrice de nos énergies nationales et
reconnue comme une zone de solidarité.
Elire un président de l'Union européenne
au suffrage universel qui incarne, face aux
intérêts nationaux, l’intérêt supérieur de
l’Union. Il coordonnera le Conseil et aura
autorité sur la Commission. S'il est besoin d'une
transition, il peut être élu par un Congrès
des parlements de l'Europe représentant à
parts égales les parlements nationaux et le
parlement européen ;

Faire respecter le pluralisme au sein
de l'Europe et l'égale dignité de tous.
Défendre et remettre en vigueur la méthode
communautaire, comme une coopérative
où l’on fait les choses ensemble, avec une
Commission de plein exercice en charge de
la défense de l’intérêt général européen ;
Renforcer aux yeux des gouvernements
nationaux et aux yeux des citoyens européens
eux-mêmes l'importance, la légitimité des
débats du Parlement européen. Il faut que
le Parlement européen fasse connaître à
l'opinion publique son agenda largement à
l'avance ;
Retrouver une relation franco-allemande
équilibrée, où la vision des deux pays est
exprimée clairement aux yeux de tous, et ne
se présente jamais comme dominatrice ;
Reconnaître la zone Euro, par nature,
comme une zone de solidarité et permettre
à la Banque centrale européenne (BCE)
d’intervenir, directement ou par un organisme
interposé, lorsque les Etats ont besoin de
refinancer leur dette, avec des contreparties
de remise en ordre de leurs finances ; Favoriser
l’émergence d’une Agence de notation
européenne et la création d’un régulateur
financier européen unique ; Permettre à la
Cour des comptes européenne de vérifier la
véracité des chiffres des comptes publics fournis
par les Etats-membres, par l’intermédiaire
d’Eurostat ; Mettre en place une Commission
parlementaire de la zone euro composée
de parlementaires nationaux et de députés
européens ; Mobiliser davantage l’épargne
des Européens et remettre en cause les normes
comptables court-termistes pour valoriser les
investissements européens à long terme.
Soutenir
que
l'Europe
a
besoin
d'indépendance stratégique et lui donner
une stratégie industrielle (politiques de
recherche dans des grands programmes
définis ensemble : bio technologies, nano
technologies, programmes dans le domaine
des énergies renouvelables, de l'astrophysique
fondamentale, dans le domaine des
matériaux, des sources d'énergie nouvelles et
renouvelable) ; Proposer que 10% du budget
européen puisse être fléché vers des fonds
liés à cette priorité ; Encourager l’émission
d’emprunts à cet effet (project bonds) ;

17
Orienter
la
politique
énergétique
européenne vers une politique de lutte
contre le rejet de gaz à effet de serre, pensée
et voulue en commun, même si chaque Etat
garde la maîtrise de ses grands choix ;
Construire une vraie politique étrangère
européenne qui fasse avancer nos valeurs ;
Promouvoir une harmonisation du droit des
étrangers et du droit d'asile et créer un corps
européen de garde-frontières ;
Préparer une action efficace d'aide au
développement des pays les plus pauvres de
la planète - ceci doit être une grande tâche
européenne - qui va imposer un changement
de conception du commerce international ;
Bâtir une politique commune de la défense
en Europe, pour que nous soyons capables
de nous défendre ensemble ;

Aide au développement
L'aide internationale au développement est
une nécessité, elle ne doit pas être restreinte
malgré la crise financière que nous traversons.
La France doit prendre toute sa part. Sur la
méthode, il convient aussi de corriger les
formes que l'APD a prises depuis quelques
années.
Faire de la taxe sur les transactions financières
un véritable instrument de dégonflement de la
bulle spéculative qui grève notre économie.
Affecter 10% des revenus de la taxe sur les
transactions financières au développement,
afin de venir à bout des plaies qui menacent
la stabilité du monde, telle que la faim,
l’illettrisme de masse, les pandémies et le
dérèglement climatique ; Stabiliser cette
ressource pour la planète, en la constituant
comme financement extrabudgétaire préaffecté à un organisme international chargé
de centraliser les flux émanant des différents
pays, tel UNITAID, et ainsi les redistribuer aux
différents pays et causes bénéficiaires ;
Tout faire d’ici la fin de la mandature
pour respecter l’engagement qui a été
pris par la France envers la communauté
internationale, de consacrer à l'aide publique
au développement 0,7 % de son PIB ;

Défense
En matière de Sécurité la France doit maintenir
intacte la capacité de sa Défense nationale,
c’est-à-dire :
Maintenir le rang de la France en matière
de défense nucléaire. Sa force de dissuasion
nucléaire restera crédible et indépendante
avec ses deux composantes de forces ;
Soutenir notre industrie de défense pour
qu’elle soit non seulement le pivot de notre
politique de Défense mais aussi de notre
politique Industrielle;
Retisser le lien Armée-Nation, notamment
en soulignant le rôle des Armées dans la
promotion sociale aussi bien que dans la
sécurité civile en cas de crise et en nouant
un dialogue constructif avec les anciens
combattants et les associations patriotiques;
Maintenir la gestion des ressources humaines
de la Gendarmerie dans le périmètre du
ministère de la Défense;
Refuser que la Défense soit considérée
comme la « variable d’ajustement »
budgétaire ; L’effort qui lui sera demandé
sera le même que celui qui sera imposé aux
autres administrations publiques du pays ;
Respecter ses engagements vis-à-vis de ses
alliés et promouvoir ardemment une politique
de Défense européenne ; Maintenir une
capacité de projection de ses forces et une
capacité de renseignement autonome ;
Approfondir la réflexion stratégique,
préciser le cadre stratégique puis faire
adopter par le parlement une nouvelle loi
de programmation militaire et la mettre en
œuvre sans reniements et sans à-coups ;


