Everybody
CDA election manifesto 2012-2017 2012-2017
election
2012-2017
Everyone everyone
 CDA election program 2012-2017
Foreword
It comes down to.
On September 12 Netherlands goes to the polls to elect a new parliament.
Before you is the election program for 2012-2017. It is in line with the outcomes of the Strategic Council, Select and Connect, the committee that the
Christian-democratic agenda has been renewed. Combined with the results of the committee 'New words, new pictures', put that report the
tone for the new program.
The CDA program 2012-2017 and the outcomes of the Strategic Council are
regarded as one cohesive document. It is there, the translation of. To
To underline this, each chapter of the program begins with a quote from
And select Connect.
The members of the program committee are: Paul Doop (Chairman), Hubert Bruls
(Vice Chairman), Jan Schinkelshoek, Mustafa Amhaouch, Janny Bakker, Hans de
Bruijn, Guusje Dolsma, Marianne Luyer, Petra Tielemans, Michel Rog, Jeroen
van Velzen, Peter Arensman, Leonard Geluk, Marnix van Rij, Miriam Maasdam,
Lans Bovenberg (advisor), Raymond Gradus (advisor), Ruth Peetoom (advisor), Karin Hoentjen / Hester Tjalma (secretary).
Many have contributed to the creation of this program.
Along many roads have reached our suggestions for the program. We have in the preparation of the program to citizens and civil society
organizations asked for specific suggestions. It has many useful ideas
completed and mind. A word of thanks goes to all CDA departments
and organizations representing more than 1 400 amendments tabled to the draft text in a very short time. Partly based on the discussions and decisions
on the substance of these amendments, the program has become a document of "everyone" within the CDA. Together we can do that; may together
we more. We thank everyone who has made an active contribution in this way in this program.
We are ready.
Ruth Peetoom,
Party president.
 Everyone
 CDA election program 2012-2017
Index
For the future of our children
7
Together we can do more!
11
1. Identity and pluralism
17
2. Through Europe in the world
25
3. Sustainable dynamics
33
4. Knowledge makes the difference
41
5. Valuable health
49
6. Tailored solidarity
57
7. Solid finances
65
8. Decisive government
71
Appendix I - Glossary
81
 Everyone

PHOTO | ANP Cor Salverius CDA election program 2012-2017
For the future of our children
It concerns everyone.
Young and old, big and small, rich and poor, men and women, sick and healthy, student
and retired, citizen and rustic, entrepreneur and employee, newcomer and laggard.
And is perhaps the best to our children.
If we do not do what is needed, they'll be moving our issues: debt,
disunity, roughening, nuisance, pollution and unemployment.
It's in the slotted elections for the Lower House, on September 12,
to our future.
To everyone's future.
We hold elections in an uncertain time. Many people are concerned about the
future. Because the housing market is frozen, their jobs, their pensions
or the cuts, which come on them. Those concerns are understandable because
There is much at stake. The choices today we shape the Netherlands of our children.
The CDA believes that the Netherlands has the capacity to emerge stronger from the crisis
come. If we dare to make the right choices, if we are willing to lessons
draw out what went wrong. We have confidence in people, trust in
their common sense and therefore confidence in the future.
In times of crisis you revert to your deepest roots. The Christian tradition does
our universal concepts like charity and personal responsibility. We only come to us right in relation to others. A common thread in
our approach is, therefore, the strengthening of the communities. We want
harness the power of people, companies, schools and other organizations. We
are essentially a 'we-land'.
With this election, the CDA is therefore aimed at anyone who
feel involved in Netherlands, a beautiful country! We are not deterred
because of the crisis.
We choose to work and entrepreneurship. A country where people space is awarded. We opt for growth that will be sustainable and innovative in all respects.
We provide new answers about the roles of government, businesses
and humans. Right now we can find creative solutions; smarter, faster and
Everyone 
less expensive. The crisis is no excuse to stand with our backs to the future.
Parties who promise everything to stay the same, putting the future at risk.
Now the government is getting smaller, crushing bureaucracy and regulations once more. We
want a strong contribution to an effective government. A government that fits
for an ambitious country where people want to live, work and entrepreneurship. A
country where an appointment is an appointment, a country where people feel at home.
We feel responsible for a government that understands and understandable
is. Who is righteous and close. We want a government of and for people.
...
Everyone participates. Netherlands is a country where parents work hard to keep their
give children a future. They combine as well as you can and work
home. They do this together with schools, sports clubs and childcare. Children
raise is a big responsibility. We want to support parents in it.
The CDA invests in people. We want the Dutch education
best will in the world. And you can! We want more challenge, research and innovation. Better vocational education that gives greater job opportunities. We put in
the best thing we have: people and companies with new ideas
it can help make the world a fairer and more sustainable.
....
Netherlands is aging. Also entails making new choices. How do we keep
facilities up to standard if there will be twice as many older persons per worker?
First, by choosing to work longer. For anyone who can.
But also by the concern to find a new balance. We carry along the
care for people affected by sickness and old age which no longer himself. And we
invest in a system in which prevention is better than cure again.
Netherlands is a safe country, where the government acts justly compared
everyone and strict where necessary. The law applies to everyone, no matter who
you are. Whoever chooses this country we speak with respect and decency. Successful
We see integration as a mutual challenge and above all a mutual interest.
 CDA election program 2012-2017
The Netherlands is a small country with a huge foreign countries. We earn our
money and contribute to a better world. The initial optimism over
European unification and the euro has faded due to concerns about the vulnerability of European cooperation. Rigorous measures are necessary in order to
prevent us from ever have to go so deep.
But we believe there is no future without Europe. Because worries
Dutch of us go to heart, we want to contribute to a democratic Europe that contributes to stability and prosperity, employment and income.
We want to contribute from Europe to a modern global economy that helps people, scarcity distributes honest and prevents wastage. That is also good
for the Netherlands. We support countries that respectful treatment of their citizens and
respecting human rights. We do our part to reduce
hunger and poverty.
...
The measures of today determine the chances of our children. We think
things can be different. And must be improved. Our response to today's problems
- Whether it comes to the economy, or health care, education or security - is
in a different balance between government and the people themselves. We opt for strengthening the community and for more solidity and common sense.
We want real reform.
We choose a country in which people respectfully interact.
We opt for connection rather than exclusion. For solutions in place
of polarization. We do what is needed.
We opt for the new center. For together. For people themselves.
For everyone.
The future of our children requires new choices.
The Hague, 2012
Everyone 

PHOTO | ANP Irvin van Hemert CDA election program 2012-2017
Together we can do more!
As a broad people's party the Christian Democrats believe in the power of the Netherlands. If we now
right to make choices, we will soon emerge stronger from the crisis. Together we can.
Therefore it comes later, when welded elections for the Lower House
September 12th.
A recovery policy deserves a firm, fair and comprehensive approach, an approach
from the new center, the center that focuses on what binds people. The
requires courage and humanity. The financial and economic crisis - at least as much a cultural and moral crisis - requires more than cut. Without
decency, values ​​and norms recovery at best remains stabbing halfway. The
are not the figures that determine the future of the Netherlands. It is the
people behind the numbers. The point is to mobilize that power.
The economic crisis demands sacrifices from everyone. Netherlands is a beautiful
country. Because to keep it, we need everyone.
We opt for a recovery with work, family and society are central.
We opt for a recovery with reforms and investment.
Together we can do more. Today and tomorrow.
The CDA looks beyond the crisis.
WORK
We opt for more work. Everyone participates. Together we can ensure
that the Netherlands is growing again.
• Solid: view of a structurally balanced budget in 2017. Amortization for
the debt then comes into view: that means less interest expense and
fair for our children.
• Activating: everyone to work that can, more jobs for young people, including
55+
• Together: Working on good labor relations, solidarity between the young and
old, between what works and who can no longer work.
• Social: burdens are distributed fairly, everyone participates in wage moderation.
• To restore a helping hand is a combination of investment,
Everyone 
reforms and cost reductions necessary:
Plus greater scope for entrepreneurship:
• Additional tax cuts for businesses
• Start-ups and SMEs are given priority on innovation
• Fewer rules and less red tape for entrepreneurs
• Strengthening of the 'top sectors' continues unabated
• Step by step towards a 'green economy': green investment, additional investment in Green Deals, renewable energy, energy efficient homes and buildings.
• Pension funds will have to invest more in Netherlands
Family
The family is the place where people 'at home'. Where children can safely
grow up. Where people take responsibility for each other and for each other
worries. Where limits are set as needed. These home - in which
composition that matter - is priceless and irreplaceable.
Alleviate financial burdens on families
• Families with modal and middle incomes will be less tax
pay.
• We support families in the extra costs of children
¡Fixed allowances for everyone
¡Income Dependent child budget.
¡Return of the Silver Fleet for later
Support for working parents:
• Parents have more control over their working hours (flexible)
• The paternity leave for fathers we expand from two to five days
• Mothers of multiple births get longer maternity leave
• Child must be better than it is today, joining the school and
home situation
• Primary school gets space to engage in self-school care
offer, so combining work and care easier for parents
is made
 CDA election program 2012-2017
Safely to school
• Parents have a free school choice: so school matches at home
• Coffee shops must be closed in the near schools
• The age limit for the purchase and possession of alcohol should be
increased from 16 to 18 years
• The awareness against the dangers of drugs and alcohol should be insistent
be
Society
People are uniquely capable of handling the problems. Do that
we every day. At home, in the neighborhood, on the street or in clubs. That request for a
government that trusts people. Which allows citizens the scope to choices
make when it comes to their lives, their work and environment.
Act together
• Make way for civic initiatives, volunteering and social
Organizations
• More space for active participation of citizens in improving
neighborhood, education and care
• New social impulses for development and
solidarity with the poorest people in the world
• Expansion of the Geefwet as a 'reward' for private initiative
Tackling bureaucracy
• Faster, smarter and less expensive to work in government, in health care and in
education
• mergers can undo Great schools and housing
• The effective suppression of rules and other administrative burdens
• trimming of (internal) management layers
• Reducing the Dutch public administration, reduce the
European bureaucracy
For more decency, more respect
• Hard action against vandalism and nuisance


Everybody

•
•
•
•

Increasing the alcohol age to 18 years
Tackling pollution street / graffiti
Parents pay for the damage their children
Exemplary behavior should be rewarded, values ​​and standards
held high by everyone

INVESTING AND REFORM
Together we are stronger from the crisis. That's not just cutting back. Thereby
hear the whole story: investment and reform. There will be room for citizens
and companies, investments in education and innovation, less (government) bureaucracy and reforms in health care, the labor market and the
housing market. Reforms require a broad collaborative approach; National
agreements are an important part of.
Invest in education and innovation
• A national education agreement
• For quality of education, to invest in teachers and less bureaucracy from within and outside the school
• More hours in the classroom and for
• Reducing repeating and better vocational education
• More space for start-ups and SMEs in innovation
• Structurally more funding for basic research
• The basic grant for undergraduate and graduate students will be maintained
• To be able to study your debts need not first
Affordable care for those who need it
• Solidarity in health - between healthy and sick, young and old,
rich and poor, maintaining a broad national insurance for anyone
is chronically dependent on care (AWBZ)
• Prevention. There should be more emphasis on health prevention and
healthy living. That is a responsibility for themselves;
also from the government, healthcare providers and society. There comes a
national action program which everyone can participate.
• Affordability. This requires a national debate about the affordability



CDA election program 2012-2017

and of the preservation of the health care. In the meantime, measures will
are necessary to curb the rising costs of care by
through system of measures aimed at cutting red tape, tackling executive pay and a real excess / own contribution.
• Make near where possible. The GP gets a stronger position and
can also take over caring for the hospital. That cuts costs
and is often more comfortable for the patient. GP Visit does not include
the excess. There should be more room for nursing services.
Restoring confidence in the housing market
• Housing associations have more scope to invest in rental housing and can thereby increase throughput on the rental market
• Relaying is promoted and encouraged asset formation
• Who redeems accelerated the mortgage gets a bonus
• Maintaining the mortgage: everyone pulls against an equal rate
• Rental costs are fairly distributed
• Introduction of building savings for home ownership
Activating labor market
• Better functioning of the labor market through: WW-length shortening) Work Capacity and a more activating assistance (work
counts!)
• Flex is flexible and fixed is fixed; job security over job security.
• AOW speed up and encourage working longer
• Unloaded travel expenses to maintain the level of 13 cents
per kilometer OV
• There is a social agreement with employers and trade unions need to be more
obtaining internships and jobs for people with disabilities.
The government gives the employer a good example.



Everybody



PHOTO | Bas de Meijer

CDA election program 2012-2017

1. Identity and pluralism
"The great diversity of our society raises the question of what binds Dutch yet. This question will in the coming years be more topical by the
big changes ahead in our society: globalization, information technology revolution and global migration movements. What we have
common and what makes us a society? And how can newcomers
stragglers inside take their place? The CDA believes a society, a pluralist, is built on shared values. Not to others
shutting out but to connect people. To make clear what we expect from each other. But it requires a social
debate to get these values ​​clear. "

We choose a country in which we live and work together, a country
where respect and decency set the tone.
We make room for the society that mosaic of social initiatives, private sector organizations, community and citizenship
We are a family and family party.
The family is the place where our people "home", the place where people
grow up, improved, growing into who they are later, the place where people
can come into their own.
We respect the identity of people within the whole that our country
forms.
We want everyone participates, old and new Dutch.
We are strictly when it comes to the immigration of people for whom the view of
Successful participation is far away, open to genuine refugees and inviting
for talent, for study or work.
We believe in the power of religion as a compass, as inspiration, as a prop and support,
as a binder.
We are committed to our constitutional democracy.
We are proud of our royal family.



Everybody

Society and democracy
• The CDA believes in the power of the Netherlands, as formed by the wide
spectrum of civil society organizations, associations and other forms
of private initiative.
• We have confidence in associations, clubs, churches, mosques, synagogues, temples, schools, businesses and all those other associations and organizations that collectively make a unique contribution to the society. So
gets 'joint responsibility' shape in everyday practice.
• The Netherlands is for everyone who is committed for the Netherlands.
• Everyone takes ability to participate fully. Therefore we attach to the first
Article of the Constitution, a fundamental right that everyone 'includes'. In that line is active action against discrimination on grounds of religion, belief, political opinion, race, gender, sexual orientation or
on any other grounds whatsoever.
• Freedom of speech is a great thing. In a democracy, should also
minorities can express their own or different ideas, opinions and beliefs. But it's not a license to offend or be disrespectful to the
to undermine society. The limits are set by law and
general rules of decency.
• Violence resulting from a cultural or religious background, such as honor-related violence, female genital mutilation or violence must be addressed as gay and lesbians and there should be proper care for victims.
Extremism is fought with force.
• The Netherlands is a modern democracy with a modern monarchy, a
Oranje monarchy which we are proud. The current constitutional relations are maintained.
• National holidays as the Queen and the celebration of May 4 and 5 are, as
symbols of national solidarity, of particular importance.
• Other national symbols such as flag and anthem, and deserve attention
respect; in particular in school.
• The Frisian language - and Dutch - a European language and recognized
both earn recognition in the Dutch constitution. Languages ​​and dialects
give residents hands and feet in the language of their hearts. We encourage
this development to. The government provides space for the development of these
languages ​​and dialects.



CDA election program 2012-2017

• Governments will provide more opportunities for active participation of citizens in
the design, expand and implement policies (citizen).
• Expressly citizens will be invited to contribute ideas.
• Local and regional civic initiatives deserve more space.
• Reduction of bureaucracy - not only in the government, in education, health and police - is part of the approach to give citizens a greater say.
• Volunteers and carers deserve appreciation and attention.
• To encourage private initiative, we advocate modernization
the Geefwet; looks at (new) fiscal measures in the area
of giving, investing and investing. Especially in amateur sport, amateur
(including music), town homes and other social interests looking after
institutions, we strive for the same tax benefits that are now restricted to charities, such as subsidized
art institutions.

Religion and philosophy
• Freedom of religion and belief is an essential characteristic of the
Dutch society.
• We are committed to the separation between church and state. Within the public space
there is room to demonstrate personal faith. The border is where
the core values ​​of law and democracy are affected.
• As a Christian democratic party, standing in the Christian social tradition, the CDA recognizes the importance of religion, also in the public domain.
• Interreligious dialogue between people is important in Netherlands
to live peacefully side by side. These are the communities that
have to work on.
• Ritual slaughter is done with concern for animal welfare.

Family and family
• The CDA is a private and family party. Every person counts: alone or together!
• Tax cuts for families, especially where young children



Everybody

•

•

•
•

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

•
•



Pgroeien deserves high priority. Income Measures we always want
O
Keys to the impact on family and family.
And family policy is more than income policy. It also involves a
safe living and playing environment, education that fits the home environment, parental support, space for multi-generational homes.
Families with children are in the prime of life. They must work and career with caring for children and family care
for loved ones in their surroundings. We want them to facilitate and support it. This also requires flexible working hours for both men and
women.
Through both the fixed allowances if the child budget, we want to accommodate families with children as well as possible.
Childcare will be best suited for parents in the home environment and the school situation. That often requires small scale, custom-oriented initiatives.
Procedures that prevent, should be abolished.
The maternity leave will be extended. This also applies
for paternity leave.
We want to simplify the rules for after-school care.
Education shall be so arranged that the school the school again full of
children and parents.
Parents pay for the damage caused by their minor children.
There should be early intervention if it is in the upbringing
risk families goes wrong.
The network around the family plays an important role: to care for youth
is not only to professionals.
Child abuse deserves a penalty approach.
Parenting can be best organized by the municipalities. Therefore, the decentralization of the youth is full through put. Rescuers work (still) too often at cross purposes. This is not effective
and increases costs without results. We want to therefore
worked with one family support budget in families with multiple
problems.
The concern for youth will be accessible furnished. Therefore, there is no
personal contribution in ambulatory youth care.
The social training is gradually deepened and extended to enhance the integration and participation among young people. Together with (sports)

CDA election program 2012-2017

associations, schools and other organizations to develop initiatives.

Sports, media, culture
• Sport is socially gold plated must be. Without volunteers, there is no sport. That effort deserves encouragement. Also on school sport
and move needed in the fight against childhood obesity.
• Companies, sports clubs, community organizations and health insurers and governments are joining forces to promote sport and physical activity.
• In a pluralistic society hears the pluralism, arguably rooted in the society in which broadcasters members sufficient scope
get. Regional and local broadcasters are of such great significance that they
permanent deserve attention. Regional media centers are stimulated,
also in order to ensure a strong regional press.
• Also art and culture are dependent on diversity and identity. Therefore
we want arts and culture organizations are well rooted in society, attracting wider audience, appeal to new groups and generate more of its own revenue. We stand for a society where people already
at a young age in contact through education and participation in culture,
which besides excellence recognition for amateur and folk culture and
where top talent gets the space. Focus on talent development is necessary
to ensure equilibrium in this chain of services.
• The cultural and religious heritage must be broadly accessible. To
keep in good condition, maintenance and restoration of monuments deserves attention. Monuments that become empty, get a new destination.
• Culture and heritage contribute to identity and innovation. For cities
regions, investments in culture contributes to an attractive
business climate, growth of tourism and added value to the (creative) economy. The region institutions have an important value for
cultural infrastructure. Across the country deserve art and culture
integrated.
• The CDA seeks to promote cultural entrepreneurship and art production within the country by focusing on alternative sources of funding.



Everybody

Integration
• The CDA wants a greater emphasis on integration. People who will integrate
at least a basic qualification. Good command of Dutch is a minimum. The emphasis will be on the responsibilities towards the Dutch society.
• Of older immigrants from the first generation, may be required to fend for themselves as much as possible in the store, at school and
the GP. Integration courses are needed more in the elderly too
to involve society.
• Passing the exam is a condition for obtaining
a residence permit for an indefinite period. That includes a maximum
effort to qualify for the labor market. Who on the side
remain ineligible for a residence permit for an indefinite period. Who does dismissive or negative, will be fined or be reduced
to his benefit.
• As a trading nation, the Netherlands should have from people in more than one
world his home. Is in the design of dual citizenship with this
starting point taken into account.

Asylum and immigration
• Asylum procedures will be better, shorter, clearer and more efficient. To
to prevent people without a future long-term residents in the Netherlands, the procedures will be arranged so that in the IND
six months provides clarity.
• The (language) requirements (marriage) migrants are tightened.
• The procedures for asylum migration and irregular migration remain strictly separate.
• Upon admitting migrant workers are the needs of the Dutch
labor leader. Knowledge workers and students are admitted quickly.
• In its final decision on an asylum application allows the responsible
minister compassionate meewegen or an asylum seeker
positive role in his community plays and is rooted hit (discretion).



CDA election program 2012-2017

• We have an eye for interests (Asylum) children rooted in Netherlands
as a result of the old procedures. The responsible minister
each case must independently take a decision (on the basis of his
discretion), in particular to break a deadlock in individual cases of hardship. That the interest of the child an important
role, speaks for itself. The starting point must be that the child is not
separated from their parents.
• Harmonisation of rules for admission, balanced
migration and a common approach to the return policy
within the European Union undiminished. We will work towards a
common European asylum policy, with asylum applications and reception
in the region of origin, place and recognized asylum seekers if necessary by
Resettlement coming to EU countries.



Everybody



PHOTO | ANP Gerald van Dalen

CDA election program 2012-2017

2. Through Europe in the world
"We live in a small country with a huge foreign countries. More than ever, the world has become a village, our village. Netherlands must participate in it fully, to
himself to take advantage of, but also in order to make the world better. Simultaneously shrinks
our influence. To a strong position despite the global power shifts
to preserve the European Union as a unity, more economical and more effective than must now operate. The CDA sees the unmistakable bond
between the Netherlands and Europe. Our country can acquire a leading position
the world stage through and with Europe. At the same time must continue to invest Netherlands
in small communities and proximity, in the countryside but also
in the city. Especially in a big world, people need to review and
human dimension where people can look after one another. Globalisation and
small scale are not opposites. "

We are working to strengthen the Dutch position in the world. And that can
not without Europe.
We want a Europe that defends Dutch interests, guarantees and strengthened.
We carry in foreign policy, the application of international law is the core, freedom, peace and security are essential ingredients and
human rights are a central task.
We are working on a new agenda for international cooperation, from the
idea of ​​increasing shared interests, mutual responsibility
and international solidarity.

We consider the role of NGOs, research institutes, businesses and private initiative in international cooperation is vital.
We want to contribute globally through NATO in international missions and crisis management.
We are proud of our armed forces.



Everybody

In Europe
• The CDA takes Europe as a community of values ​​is important, in light of the
shared history. The European Union has much to offer to Netherlands. The
is in the direct interest of the Netherlands for a democratic Europe
create powerful continent.
• The process of European integration is not an end in itself. It is the way for a
trading nation like the Netherlands to strengthen the single market and the influence
increase in the world and to safeguard the values ​​that we as Europe
stand for: freedom, democracy, rule of law and human rights.
• The European Union is limited to core functions. Therefore wants to continue the CDA
with reduction of EU legislation by 25%. There is a more efficient and more transparent European administrative culture needed, for example because the European
Parliament meets in a permanent place.
• European cooperation should be based on clear priorities, derived from what we - like the Netherlands - want. Starting with a
powerful approach to the financial, monetary and economic crisis. This
also applies to the further development of the EU's foreign policy.
• New developments require a confident and flexible foreign policy
which takes into account our interests and those of our allies. Coherence of foreign policy must be promoted: the different
parts must be better coordinated.
• The Economic and Monetary Union needs to be completed to stable
To get eurozone.
• Tackling the economic crisis requires greater coordination and integration
European level, to anchor in European treaties:
¡Substantial strengthening of budgetary discipline, including maintaining
sanctions;
¡Enforcement of the European budget commissioner;
¡Maintaining a strong independent European Central Bank,
¡Better European supervision of the banking and financial markets;
¡An active policy to achieve stronger competitiveness of economically weak EU countries.
• Cross-border issues like energy, asylum and migration, food security, sustainability, foreign policy, defense and active combat
corruption within the EU are other European priorities.



CDA election program 2012-2017

• In the EU, the international road, rail and waterway connections beyond
are being developed.
• The Council of Europe plays a vital role in the field of human rights, rule of law and democracy throughout Europe. The European Court of Human Rights deserves respect and support in his important work.
• The Dutch pension system should not be the European Union
affected.
• The European Social Fund is used for the benefit of extended employment and support training.
• The CDA cross-border cooperation is a very important part
of the European integration process. Therefore cross-border initiatives in Euroregion Association will contribute to the simplification of work
and are encouraged to live on the border and mobility and social coordination for border labor be strengthened.
• A good balance is needed between the free movement of workers within the
European Union and the rate at which workers from new Member States
the European market can join.
• Labour migration within the EU should take place on fair terms: rogue structures, which takes place unfair competition with Dutch workers, we have to fight. EU citizens who are self-employed or
secondment come to work have to register, so we can check it targeted structures. Migrant workers who decide to remain in the Netherlands, should integrate active.
• Unscrupulous employment agencies and employers who do not comply with local collective agreements
be dealt with harshly. Existing Dutch laws are rigorously enforced, also to avoid unfair competition in employment.
• Fight against organized crime - these might include: drug trafficking, human trafficking and prostitution networks, and cyber crime - requires closer cooperation in justice and police across the border.
• External Borders of the EU monitoring should be intensified. This requires more concerted action by EU Member States and strengthening border agency
Frontex.
• The temporary implementation of controls at internal borders may be allowed, but only in exceptional cases.



Everybody

• The end of the enlargement process of the European Union is approaching. Reluctance towards enlargement should be pursued. Every
New expansion must be strictly tested against the Copenhagen criteria.
• To reduce the distance from Europe to the Dutch citizen, the
Dutch parliament proactive in relation to European matters.
• The Dutch parliament is new laws earlier and better keys
feasibility with European law.
• The Senate and House must draw the yellow card as the European
legislation is contrary to the principle of subsidiarity.
• The Netherlands is working with European allies for a consolidation of democracy and rule of law and economic development in
Middle East and North Africa. It is of great importance that a good,
representative parliamentary democracy takes root there, the respect for human rights and the status of religious minorities and women will be strengthened.
• The CDA has special attention to those who are persecuted because of their
religion. The position of Christian minorities, which in 2000 year
Middle East presence, and threatened and expelled,
has special and constant attention.

In the world
• International cooperation is more than obvious. Who global
wants to tackle problems, solutions will provide, inequality wants to go will have to work together across borders.
• In order to address major global challenges - such as the sustainable management of natural resources, climate, security, food supply,
water management and migration - Netherlands will have to play an active role.
• The Netherlands will continue to contribute to improving the living conditions of
people in fragile states and conflict zones. Civil society
are indispensable in this process. Protecting and improving the position of
(religious) minorities and women is important. Considers, in this context
CDA great importance to the UN Resolution 1325 on women, peace and security



CDA election program 2012-2017

safety. Women are not only victims but also agents of change and
play a major role in reconstruction and achieving sustainable
peace.
• The ongoing modernization of development continues.
Most important is concentration of development cooperation on a limited
number of partner countries, focused on self-reliance and sustainable economic
development. Effectiveness is key: we achieve the desired effects?
• Coalitions with companies, banks, private donors, research institutions and
CSOs (here and there) are important for success
of the new strategy.
• Civil society organizations are closely associated with the (new) development agenda - need if they are to achieve global citizenship
and corporate social responsibility.
• The private initiative is a vital, indispensable component of international solidarity with the world's poor. Mutual knowledge is the
quality of international cooperation for good.
• The Netherlands will play a leading role in the renewal of the classic
North-South aid - Official Development Assistance (ODA) consists of
transfers of funds / donations - to other forms of international cooperation. Until then it is to hold the ambition to international agreements, including the 0.7% standard, and the available funds
spending in line with the ODA criteria.
• With the new forms of international cooperation is heading Netherlands at the urging of other and new sources of financing, engaged citizenship, sustainable production, fight corruption and corporate social responsibility.
• A comprehensive peace settlement to the conflict between Israel and the Palestinians will bring real peace in the Middle East. A viable two-state solution with the 1967 borders as a starting point, is this the
purpose. Both bilaterally and through the EU, the Netherlands is for it. The International
community must create the conditions for a lasting peace, based on international law. In order to maintain the risk of peace
pressure means are required, the parties move policy to strike a
just solution stands in the way.



Everybody

defense
• Netherlands plays an active role within NATO, and in a multitude of missions within various international frameworks, continuing need for
protection of the territory, global defense Dutch
interests and promote the international legal order.
• To maintain an innovative, versatile and effective armed forces
maintain, adequate investment and sustained funding are needed.
Further defense cuts affecting the versatility and the
necessary powers to the armed forces.
• The defense cooperation with like-minded partner continues
and expanded, starting in Europe. This increases the effectiveness.
• The armed forces will also be used to combat drug trafficking,
illegal immigration, terrorism and piracy.
• Motivated, trained and trained personnel - indispensable for a
well-functioning military - deserves attention. These include
also good care and aftercare.
• Defence will pursue a more active policy reservists. Veterans deserve
continuing recognition and appreciation.



CDA election program 2012-2017



Everybody



PHOTO | ANP Robin Utrecht

CDA election program 2012-2017

3. Sustainable dynamics

"Entrepreneurs are very important for the Dutch economy and society. We opt for development and growth that are sustainable in all respects
and is innovative. There should be plenty of space for the generation of sustainable
energy, (inter) national level and on a small scale. We must also reduce our energy consumption by building better and cleaner road transport and more efficient to produce. From an old economy that raw materials and goods
consume, we must switch to a circular economy in which raw materials and materials are retained and reused. We choose vital,
sustainable cities and for space to accommodate the shrinkage in rural areas with new initiatives. "

We give entrepreneurs as engines of dynamism, recognition for what they
doing for Netherlands. They earn the money for the Netherlands.
We opt for growth that is sustainable and innovative in all respects
We want to keep the Netherlands strongly and our world beautiful and fruitful to leave for future generations.
We share responsibility for our environment. Our choices do
socially increasing.
We support the terrifying role of civil society organizations to Netherlands
a disposable economy in order to create a circular economy.
We choose our beautiful nature and our beautiful landscape.
We are citizens and civil society organizations share responsibility for
working together in innovative ways between nature, recreation, agricultural nature and agriculture.
We want that the Netherlands remains accessible.
We want mistreatment and neglect of animals is tackled firmly.
Entrepreneurship
• Entrepreneurs deserve respect for what they do for our country. Special attention should be there for SMEs. They are the engine of our economy.
• Entrepreneurs deserve support in healthy markets. Therefore we choose
the return of temporary tax increases.
• We advocate the ambitious continuation of the program "Reduction



Everybody

•
•
•

•

•
•
•

•

regulatory pressure ', which equates to an annual reduction of 10% in 2014 and
2015 and by at least 5% in the years following. For entrepreneurs, it must (literally) be noticeable. Among other things, the existing regulations, for example on
the areas of taxation, supervision and planning is simplified.
Generic innovation schemes are attractive to SMEs.
Within the European Union puts Dutch on principle in a level playing field.
The family business that both the assets and the values ​​will pass to
the next generation fits with our ambition for a more sustainable economy.
We support companies that take initiatives that go beyond the legal requirements in terms of durability, safety and social innovation.
Existing (fiscal) investment schemes are merged.
There will be more space for start-ups and SMEs in innovation.
The top sector approach will be pursued with vigor.
For the future of next generations, we give a high priority to
a powerful, versatile, realistic, clear environmental policy. The Green Deal approach is intensified. The government supports this way the realization of sustainable initiatives. Please also get funding
available.
Upon application of procurement rules also serve SMEs a real
chance to get an order from the government. In addition, the EU regulations should not be applied more stringent than necessary.

Energy
• The Netherlands should invest in the coming decades in the transition to a
low-carbon, sustainable economy. On the way to low-carbon and sustainable economy by 2050 require clear objectives. To limit climate change to below 2% CDA supports the European target
to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 80 to 95% compared to 1990. Investing in renewable energy and energy efficiency is
response to the challenges of energy security and climate change.



CDA election program 2012-2017

•

•

•

•

•

•
•

Coal-fired and nuclear power in the long term are no longer needed. For
CDA is the Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS) is a key tool in the
sustainable economy. The CDA is committed to tightening of the
ETS, which is based on a level playing field.
We will do everything for 8% renewable energy by 2016 and 14% renewable energy and 20% CO2 reduction by 2020. This is also important for energy security. The use of waste heat from power plants and companies
through the construction of heating networks is one of the forms of alternative
energy supplies which the government gives priority.
We are strongly in favor of promoting decentralized energy generation and renewable energy storage. Experiments are performed around
the larger offset (including the meter) of locally generated renewable
energy with a view to the development of a good general scheme
in time. Energy Cooperatives can play a role here also for homeowners' associations
obstacles are removed.
Private investment in sustainability, we want to make it more attractive. We
advocating for local and regional funds for energy efficiency. Municipalities
and provinces are responsible for the co-financing and stimulate small-scale power generation.
For new homes higher standards for energy efficiency. Through green deals, strengthening of sustainable construction
possible. In addition, the CDA wants to promote better energy efficiency for existing homes.
Housing associations are given the opportunity to pass on investments for energy savings to the lessee where the benefit of the lower
energy bill to the tenant accrues.
The incentive scheme for renewable energy (SDE +) will be strengthened.
The government helps to realize sustainable energy projects
improved procedures and regulations. Authorisation should not unnecessarily
impediment to work.

Nature, environment and space
• Support for our nature will be increased by better connections with recreation, agriculture and other economy. Nature must regional



Everybody

are well managed and effective and simple protection in line with European regulations.
• Waste is a resource. Netherlands must be leading in Europe towards
waste reduction and recycling. At the end of the next
Cabinet period should be recycled 85% of waste.
• The Netherlands is the safest delta in the world. This should remain so. The execution
of the flood program has priority; weak spots
(such as the Dam) to be addressed. The funding is through the
Delta Fund. Attention is also required for sufficient fresh water during
dry periods and for preventing salinization processes.
• We find one Environment Act still important and strive for a quick introduction with practical procedures. It will replace fifteen existing
laws and parts of dozens of other laws. This will (administrative) burden on citizens and businesses reduced, for example when
applying for a permit.

Cities and regions
• The quality of the environment and quality of life is important for people in the
urban and rural areas.
• The CDA addresses the abuse of the Shop to. Municipalities may be permitted a maximum of 12 shopping Sundays.
• Cities have their own dynamism and creativity. The urban space must be provided for this purpose. Urban problems
fully addressed. The CDA focuses on quality of life in the towns, in all
respects, physically and socially and for all. These are the people who the city
do what he is.
• Green is also in the city is important for health. We make room for
"Urban agriculture" and other initiatives that encourage green in the city. Nature Land used to compensate for construction and infrastructure.
• The availability of work and basic services is important for the quality of life in cities and rural areas, even with a shrinking population. New initiatives for healthcare, education, welfare and culture have all
space.



CDA election program 2012-2017

• There are more houses to be built in the cities.
• Conversion of the existing buildings be preferred to demolition or extremely prolonged vacancy. In this context, municipalities should get more powers quickly, also to prevent further impoverishment of areas and industrial estates. Is in renovation / construction for durability
considering. The CDA maintains the overall squatting ban.

Accessibility
• The infrastructure will be further strengthened in the Netherlands. The CDA is committed to a
better utilization of the existing infrastructure, with good combinations
be made between different existing and new forms of transport (eg. speed bike lanes).
• The tax-exempt travel allowance for commuting continues to
the cost of public transport.
• The CDA wants more charging points for electric cars so that sustainable
development is encouraged.
• With good and high quality public transport can significantly improve the viability and accessibility of city and region. The social function of public transport deserves special attention. At current intensive use of
National rail transport we are primarily interested in good management and maintenance. Expansion of the existing rail network deserves high priority,regional authorities can contribute.
• The split between NS and ProRail will be undone.
• The CDA supports a sustainable accessibility. In addition, the fits
encouraging the use of bicycles.
• A targeted approach for offenders in traffic. The demerit points system is extended to all drivers. A driver with three gross
violation lost his license.
• The waterway handles 25% of our domestic transportation. This green
mode of transport relieves our roads. The barge is stimulated
by promoting cleaner engines, the maintenance of a (small)
waterways, boosting transhipment facilities for road and rail and
attention for mooring facilities.



Everybody

Agriculture, horticulture, fishery and animal welfare
• Affordable and sustainably produced food is vital for everyone. Therefore, the CDA is proud of our agricultural sector. Our agriculture and
(greenhouse) horticulture makes a major contribution to the economy and to the management
of our landscape. In the world it stands as an example for quality,
sustainability, innovation and efficiency. The CDA will put every effort
to strengthen the position of the Dutch agricultural sector.
• We support the initiatives in the sector that go beyond legal
requirements in terms of sustainability, such as Better Life Feature, Kas as
Energy source and Sustainable Dairy Chain.
• We promote within the EU cooperation between countries and agencies
to establish a proactive policy approach towards rapid crisis
food safety.
• Entrepreneurs who invest in ecological, economical and socially responsible sustainability (including in terms of public and animal health,
animal welfare, landscaping and environmental restrictions) make room.
• We are committed to strong families and family businesses. The scale
intensive livestock farming, which is focused solely on cost competition is limited.
• For strong family and family is important that the production in the EU as much as possible to the same regulatory conditions required to
meet. We encourage initiatives to generate new forms of revenue models for entrepreneurs in the primary sector.
• The CDA is right for good health. To antibiotic resistance
reduce the use of antibiotics in livestock farming must be minimized.
• We opt for a European agricultural policy with a focus on future challenges (shortages of food, energy and raw materials). We need to produce better and smarter with less use of energy and resources.
• We call for the lifting of trade barriers and optimum market access to other countries. Partly for this reason we are to maintain
agricultural councils.
• To improve the competitiveness of Dutch farmers plead



CDA election program 2012-2017

we are to reduce the regulatory burden, in a European context.
• We support a further greening of the CAP by innovation, attention to biodiversity and increase animal welfare. In addition, the pressure is not increased. Crops growing
provided as a fossil fuel, is not a desirable contribution in this context
and should therefore be stimulated in any way.
• The fishing industry has made great strides put by deploying
new fishing techniques and using quality marks for sustainable fish (MSC and ASC).
Internationally, a level playing field should be subject to the requirements
fleet and fishing. Sustainable management of fishery resources should base
in European fisheries policy.
• The following applies to genetic modification of animals, "no, unless", and to plant, "Yes,
provided that "this is safe for humans, animals and the environment. Genetic modification in plants can play an important role in global food security. In the
plant breeding the plant variety must be leading, and the complete 'breeders exemption' should be included in the patent.
• Abuse and neglect of animals dealt with firmly. The nationwide reporting number (144 rescue an animal) remains. The animal welfare standards are tightened in the European context. The duration of transport
animals for slaughter is limited to eight hours. European agreements on animal welfare (such afschaf battery cages and mandatory group housing for sows)
will be respected and enforced throughout.
• If animals protected by the large population be harmful eg. Wild
pigs, geese, foxes, martens, the fight should be possible.
• We remain committed to combat animal diseases through vaccination without
trade restrictions.



Everybody



PHOTO | ANP Koen Suyk

CDA election program 2012-2017

4. Knowledge makes the difference
"In the knowledge economy of tomorrow is the key to success. Yet there is a threat
knowledge gap across society. The CDA chooses to people
days and support for their knowledge and skill levels to lifelong
hold. The children of the school is the place where education takes place into responsible citizens. Parents and schools must organize together
that children with language deficiency that can catch up before they go to group
First go to the school. Parents and schools also discuss how parents work
and combine family life. The freedom to establish schools to broaden the CDA to non-religious grounds. Parenting is close to home
and accessible to be organized. Teaching and research in universities and businesses should have their leading international position
improve or maintain. "

We invest in people.
We believe that the education of the society: the parents, the neighborhood
and of teachers.
We believe that education should be ambitious: the basic quality in order and the
bar further up.
We believe that the Dutch education as one of the best in the world can
belong, if we really give priority to.
We are convinced that investing in education leads to greater empowerment of people, more opportunities.
We deliberately choose in this economically difficult time to invest in
teaching and research.
We give pupils, students, teachers and researchers the opportunity to put the Netherlands back on the map. The Netherlands should again be among the top five knowledge economies.
We opt for small-scale and ambitious education.
We believe it is important to obtain a teaching qualification hard
to work with.
We urge schools to give the room more different pathways to
offer. This prevents downtime and helps teachers to bring pupils and students in the right place.
We are committed in the bulkheads between childcare (especially the after-school care), to demolish the kindergarten and primary school.
We want the rules governing school care simplify, so that the


Everybody

regulations more in line with the educational use.
We are committed to good vocational education, a cornerstone of the economy.
We want people to develop lasting and schools: life-long learning
is a task for the government-funded schools and commercial
education.
We are heading for a National Education Agreement between representatives
parents, pupils / students, teachers, schools and governments.

Based on order, batten up
• The policy to bring in basic education policy and quality
continue to improve will be continued. The task of forming the
education is not forgotten. Drop down and continue to be moved further back.
• We require everyone in teaching extra effort and get rid of the
culture of mediocrity. We encourage yield-oriented work and spend more
time and attention to pupils who can better thanks to that extra attention
achieve.
• We want to promote quality by further professionalizing
teachers, directors, boards and regulators.

New relationships
• The CDA wants to reach new administrative relationship between government
and education. Schools will be given more space, freedom and responsibility
to yourself to take those steps to raise the bar. For this purpose, a is
national education agreement between the government, (trade) organizations
teachers, organizations of school boards and organizations
parents and students. Schools are budgeted directly from the realm
for of maintaining their buildings, without the intervention of the
municipality.
• Schools herein are given more space to make their own choices, under the
provided that increase the quality of education and educational outcomes.



CDA election program 2012-2017

•

•
•
•

•

I fa these results are not achieved will be monitoring and control
intensified.
The government monitors the minimum quality of education and sets key objectives
fixed. For the rest, the schools about the interpretation and implementation of their
education. In this way, the control is reduced by the government
Keys is a means and not an end in itself. It is important to have a uniform system exists for final tests and student monitoring systems.
Schools will be given more space to experiment, with the aim of increasing the learning results.
Institutions maintain a human scale. A better balance will have to
state are placed between the funds allocated to the primary
educational process and the various management levels. If all concerned
agree a school may de-merge or even merge. Starting point is
that teaching is small-scale organized.
The CDA represents the firm on the freedom of education,
as guaranteed in our Constitution since 1848. Parents determine the
freedom of orientation and organization of the special schools.

Teachers
• We invest in teachers, they deserve a high social recognition, because education is as good as the teacher in the classroom. Selection at the
port allows only the very best students to enter teacher training. Aggressive behavior of pupils and parents, both verbal and non-verbal ways
facing teachers and support staff, will by
management and the board with force must be combated.
• The teacher is a teacher again and again focuses on teaching and counseling students. The teaching assistant gets the teacher time for customization. The teacher develops again are themselves subject material by making use of
digital teaching aids. Putting more feature differentiation creates
better career prospects in education, without having to classroom
should leave. We want to teacher training and especially the Pabo again
attractive to men.
• For all the teacher and school staff will be a professional register under the responsibility of professional associations.



Everybody

Parents
• Involvement of parents is essential in order to get the best out of each child and contributing to the school as a community of values. School
have the ability to create in older agreements agreements
mutual expectations and manners.
• We stand for the principle of freedom of choice of education for parents. Not only based on religious motives, but also from educational
or pedagogical reasons should be allowed to establish schools.
However, freedom of education is not a license for poor quality of education.

Primary and secondary education
• The CDA wants to remove the barriers between childcare and school. We want to achieve integration between the early childhood education and elementary school
in the form of a group of 0 to 3 year olds with language and developmental disadvantage.
• We want to encourage broad day packages with a focus on culture and
sport for children aged 4 to 12 years. The school gets space
in order to provide out-of-care itself, which is in the best interest of the child
is, and that combining work and care easier for parents
is made.
• The change of suitable education has a broad basis, we want to minimize the bureaucracy involved in the partnerships. Stay
sufficient funds to support vulnerable youth.
• Share certificates are entered. For example, a pre-vocational secondary pupil
take courses at a higher level, but also the pre-university students follow technical courses that are not offered in the pre-university at the time. This
also offers opportunities for special needs pupils or students in special education,
in order to maximize talent



CDA election program 2012-2017

Lifelong Learning
• We give space to a "lifelong learning".
• The right to (re) training should be embedded in contracts.
• We want to modernize the teaching part-time and tailored to the demands of
the labor market.
• The MBO and HBO organize short vocational courses which staff themselves
fast can further training and retraining. The talents of older workers as instructors in vocational guidance and work placements
be utilized.
• We encourage exchanges of companies and governments for labor market relevant courses.
• New entrants get space on the market of "lifelong learning".

MBO, HBO and WO
• Without good science, higher and secondary vocational education not
knowledge economy. Innovation of technology training is essential, especially
MBO, HBO and WO.
• The CDA focuses on technical training for the promotion of real craftsmanship. In consultation with industry, vocational education can take shape. Vocational education should include the introduction of small-scale vocational technical school and new style, another positive
be selection. Already in primary education should be attention to subject-based teaching techniques.
• We are committed to offering Associate Degrees in the form of more
Cooperation between MBO and HBO.
• The provision of training, in collaboration with industry and
CSOs are reassessed, so that education is better suited
in the labor market
• We want higher education opportunities for selection at the gate
expand. We stand for preservation of the basic grant in both the Bachelor
master phase. Because of this we promote the study and we avoid building up debt.
• The CDA wants to explore the possibilities of the OV trip right in the MBO.



Everybody

• Studies are better organized and more flexible. Teaching should be a priority within the institution.
• For programs where a shortage in the labor market (health, technology)
stimulatory measures. The offer is tailored to the
perspective on the labor market. There will be a more differentiated tuition. Reduction of tuition fees can be used for example for
boxes (think eg. to technical education and teacher training) where
a shortage or threatened.

Research and innovation
• The top sector policy should be pursued vigorously. That requires additional investment: more structural funds (regional) innovation and
(regional) research from (inter) national business, government and
regional / local authorities are necessary. These funds are allocated on the basis of (regional) innovation and excellence. It is co-financed by European, national and regional research funding is necessary.
• In addition, it will introduce more funds become available
for fundamental research. These will be awarded based on quality.
• There will be more space for start-ups and SMEs in innovation.



CDA election program 2012-2017



Everybody



PHOTO | ANP Ton Borsboom

CDA election program 2012-2017

5. Valuable health
"Progress in the medical sector means that people heal more often
diseases and people live longer. The increase in the number of elderly and chronically ill requires a shift towards prevention and empowerment: what
people can do themselves or pay myself? How can we support them? By separating living and care and good to look at what care by
Insurers can be and what facilities are covered by municipalities
offered, we can keep up the necessary facilities
those who need long-term (intensive) care. "
We are, even in difficult times, for a health system based on solidarity, solidarity between sick and healthy, young and old, rich and poor.
We realize that reforms are necessary healthcare in the long run
keep it affordable. We do not walk away for difficult choices.
We call on everyone to contribute to take responsibility for their own health and to care for the other.
We advocate a shift in care to prevention and to self- and
together-reliance.
We avoid the discussion or not anything that should also unlimited available
are.
We opt for a cover that does not offer, the bureaucracy or the rules
are key, but people's demand for care, support and help.
We are working people to have more control over the care.
Quality of care should be the guiding principle in policy. Qualitative interaction between in need of care and caregiver, and the human dimension
must be central to policymaking.
We stand for an inclusive society, a society in which everyone -
regardless of age and with and without disabilities - just join.

Prevention: aftercare for precaution
Of care and disease, behavior and health of the people first, focus on
healthy living, but also to the healthy physical environment. Prevention should be a
are an integral part of care.
This will place more people are going to ask, but also require care so close
is organized as possible.



Everybody

• Prevention is everyone's business and requires a change in mentality.
Individuals, employers and manufacturers, health insurers, health care providers,
education all have a role. We want to promote cooperation and
establish a national agenda for a healthier Netherlands. The smoking ban is a good preventive measure and should be maintained.
• Loneliness is one of the social problems of our time and affects many people, for example among the elderly is common. The CDA wants to bet on
combating loneliness. Family, social environment and municipal welfare and ideological and religious organizations
help with philosophical issues and to restore, if possible again
forming their own social network.
• We encourage innovative ways of care, such as e / Health which
contribute to people even if they are sick more control in their own hands
hold and may continue to participate.
• We strive to ratification by the Netherlands of the UN Convention on Rights
of people with disabilities. The content of this Convention is the starting point for the review of legislation on people with limitations
applies.

Long-term care and community support
The AWBZ we bring it back to its original purpose: a national insurance scheme
for nursing and care that lasts longer than a year to people with
prolonged restriction.
We put people and their demand for care centrally by him, where necessary with support from the municipality, to enable as long as possible, directing himself
to increase the health care. It also means that people as long as possible in their own
home situation can continue to live. It is not the quality of the treatment that determines people's happiness,
but the quality of life. The well-being of people first, and then deploy
thereafter provide the care that is necessary.
• The EMEA ensures long-term care and nursing independently
indication. Not all elements of care (such as housing and residence and (social) assistance) disappear from the EMEA. An exception is made



CDA election program 2012-2017

for the guidance that is inextricably linked to the 24-hour care.
• Housing and stay pay people themselves, even if they need care. That
also allows new combinations of housing and care tailored as possible. Counseling, social work and participation may organize municipal well. They
provide tailored to people who need support to part
participate in society. The CDA is important that parents can provide their children with disabilities (including heavier demand for care) at home.
• Short-term nursing care associated with medical care
comes in the Health Insurance Act. This concern can be properly insured and close
often to the hospital and GP care.
• Long-term care we fund next person. People choose who
care grants to match the demand for care. A tilting, so that the desired
and needs of people-centered. The PGB stays that way
exist as a drawing right in the EMEA. This is true for people with a
indication for inpatient care. When it comes to outpatient care than
also true that municipalities have the freedom to choose a
PGB. People can individually choose their health care providers. This will
also participation in society, education and employment promotion and comes
way for small-scale demand-driven care initiatives.
• We advocate more space for healthcare professionals in EMEA. This is to the
improve quality of care and to do what is necessary for the care recipient. The
person next funding makes possible more small-scale initiatives
which again focus on the primary process and less bureaucratic.
• The proposed decentralization of the EMEA guidance and youth care
the municipalities are performed. Municipalities receive sufficient
resources of the State to carry out the task.
• The AWBZ is implemented by health insurers for their own insured. This allows for integrated, demand-driven care
to get close to humans. Cooperation with municipalities is essential.
• Family, friends and neighbors are essential for as long as possible
independent functioning of people who care. Caregivers give
for that space. Volunteers and care and professional care should reinforce each other. Support for carers is more priority
get. Family care and regular employment should be better coordinated
be.
• We want new forms of personal service and simple



Everybody

care for the elderly, but also to others with disabilities encouraging. Removal of obstacles in this regard. People with disabilities in the future need for more choices in the
to continue to participate in daily life.
• The CDA is the review of the complaints in the health care law,
so that complaints independently of care providers will be
and there is a remedy for the complainant.
• Hospitals and healthcare facilities are primarily community facilities
and should develop into social enterprises and not
to gain benefit-oriented listed companies. The CDA is against the profits of hospitals and other healthcare providers. Positive
business results should be back in or for the benefit of health care
invested. Hospitals and health care institutions should be able,
provide the local community or representatives thereof to influence
to practice the policy of the institution.
• Institutions maintain a human scale. If all concerned about it
agree to a hospital or care facility defusing or just merge premise is that care is organized small-scale and the quality of the
service is guaranteed.

Curative care
We want care close to home, delivered in the first line, so long as this is possible and justified. Care close to home with an emphasis on health and behavior
and not on illness and care. Care close to home that is tailored to the individual
care needs of the citizens. But if this is not sufficient, there must be qualitatively
good secondary care are available. For highly complex care may mean that we have to travel further, less complex care needs regionally
are available. Quality must be a guiding principle more in healthcare.
Only quality care leads to more efficiency. When the patient can recover more prosperous is that profit for the individual and society.
• We want a health care infrastructure that meets the human dimension,
the wellbeing of the care and responsibility of the professional.
Care delivered in primary care close to home is often cheaper than in the



CDA election program 2012-2017

•

•

•

•
•

•
•

second line. The CDA chooses one budget frameworks and the abolition
budgetary baffles for first and second line, enabling insurers
and health care providers can provide care in the most efficient manner. Than
we can the growth of this budget also in a joint arrangement between
government, health insurers and health care providers to limit what is needed to
to capture the aging population and technological renewal. Demonstrable quality, efficiency, innovation and cooperation aimed at comprehensive care to the
Patients should be rewarded and reduced the number of transactions. There
where home care nursing in the home supply which is necessary in connection with specialist medical care, quality and must
ability are guaranteed.
The insured care should be limited to essential care. All
claims in the renewed package must be assessed against objective criteria of necessary care, which can carry people themselves.
For GPs and if possible for the whole health care is profit and
quality of care are central to their (subscription) funding. Quality is also the result of the treatment and the treatment
as assessed by the patient. District Nursing is part
of care in the first line. They work in collaboration with GPs and
forms part of their practice. The CDA is committed to the presence
of district nursing in the district.
Health insurers are the directors of further distribution and concentration of care. Quality of care is leading. It is a specific focus on
(shrinkage) regions. Non-complex care remains close to the people available.
The Health Insurance Act is therefore adjusted so that insurers with sufficient contracted care, policyholders do not have to pay when they make the choice to a non-contracted care provider
go.
The income of the directors of civil society organizations should not
balkenende are higher than the norm.
Specialists are part of the hospital. The fees of specialists
to be paid for and determined by the hospital. Those fees known freelance medical specialists then also a (turnover) ceiling.
To improve patient safety, there will be a uniform bar coding
for drugs and devices.
There will be an investigation of the resistance problems surrounding the use of



Everybody

drugs in human medicine.
• We also want people who need mental health boost that they can continue to live at home as long as possible and participate in the
society. The municipality supports from the WMO where patients
come short to participate independently.
• To maintain affordable and accessible health care for all, we do a
great appeal for solidarity. In order to make appropriate use of the care
people and caregivers should be aware of the costs involved in treatment with him. Therefore we want to give people an insight into the
cost of the care they need. Where contribution is requested,
GP consultations is excluded. The capacity for current and future generations will be monitored.
• It is important that frontline caregivers also provide care outside of regular office hours. This often avoids relying on expensive acute
care and gives carers and volunteers to care and better opportunities
work to combine.
• The care allowance ensures that people can actually continue to pay the premium for the basic package if they have a low or middle income.
The carrying capacity of the household continues to lead to the award of the
care allowance. The government pays as now the premium for children.
• For proper and comprehensive care electronic information exchange between
caregivers is essential. Patients themselves should be able to specify which information is exchanged (opt-in). They have, as owners of the information, the ability to control their information in an accessible way
Download or take away so as to avoid unnecessary duplication of diagnostics.
• Free choice of doctor should be safeguarded as much as possible.

Medical ethics
• Every human life, how vulnerable, is always full. We believe that the
human dignity and safety of people at home or in a care facility, must be guaranteed.
• Good care, guidance and support people at the end of their



CDA election program 2012-2017

•

•
•
•

life is very important and must also be financially clearly defined. People
must be able to freely choose where they wish to receive this care at home, in
a hospice or in a care facility.
Most care takes place around the end of life of the patient. In these
end of life is a good assessment of medical interventions and quality
of life is of particular importance. The CDA believes it is right at this stage of interest
that people, together with their neighbors, keep control over the necessary care and support. The CDA wants to care that people in
their life receive the qualitative aspects of a humane
life take center stage, and treatment options that are light
seen.
The CDA wants to encourage organ donation. Part of this is the active promotion of donor registration.
Targeted information and preventive care among youth remains necessary to prevent unwanted pregnancies and abortions.
The CDA will in the next cabinet period, the debate about the affordability
and retention of care, including whether or not to treat the agenda.



Everybody



PHOTO | ANP Ilvy Njiokiktjien

CDA election program 2012-2017

6. Tailored solidarity
"The solidarity between generations, employed and unemployed, incapacitated and disabled, as well as lower and higher education should be a new
gain momentum. Before that the CDA sees participation and empowerment as key words, under the motto: every person has the right to participate and the duty
to contribute. People can understand more than they sometimes themselves. The challenge is
to find unsuspected qualities and to tap. The CDA thereby remains firm
stand for the vulnerable in society. Those who do not possess the resilience
and are not equipped to find their place in the labor market, should the
Solidarity will continue to benefit society. "
We choose to work.
We invest in people.
We want a government that really helps and challenges, a government that protects
where necessary.
We are a country of hard working people who are going to work together to
Netherlands even better: young people studying, have a job or get
education.
We choose to work together and solve together with plenty of space left for
creativity and innovativeness.
We want a government that activates citizens in consultation with the employer and
other employees.
We offer security: protection against the risks of unemployment, sickness and disability are still needed.
We want fair share, even in times of crisis.
We choose to encourage entrepreneurship, support families and those who work to appreciate.
We make room for the reduction of the burden on the people who work.
We think saving a virtue.

Solidarity between generations
• Solidarity can not be imposed unilaterally. Therefore, the aims
CDA to create a future-proof Netherlands by well
stewardship. Thus, young and old, rich and poor future hopeful
Meet.



Everybody

• The state pension remains the basic pension.
• As we live longer on average, the retirement age may rise. That is also
good for the sustainability of the basic pension. The state pension age starts
In 2015 to 66 in 2020 and to 67; then the state pension age will be linked
to life expectancy. With the retirement age also increases the effective date
pensions. For those with bridging problems and too little
opportunities to offset this, there will be a transitional arrangement.
• The state pension can be taken flexibly between 65 and 70 years.
Continuing to work after the retirement age will be encouraged.

Labor market
• Employers and employees are jointly responsible for the (future) employability, including at the end of employment, because the CDA continues to invest in a good social dialogue.
• In the (threat of) unemployment will initially be seen whether and what basic qualification (still) can be achieved. For young people there are grants, no assistance,
• Employees receive a personal budget that can be used for
training and work-to-work programs. The government encourages employers
and make room for individual employees, versatile training rights for employees so that they can invest in their own employability, can take control of their own careers and their craftsmanship
hold level.
• The Unemployment is brought back to the original purpose
income protection when changing jobs. For older unemployed
there will be a follow-up benefit.
• We promote work instead of unemployment by making the switch to a lower-paying job from the WW attractive.
• The unemployed who receive benefits are obliged to accept suitable employment.
• Employers are still required more than half a year cost
to reimburse the unemployment benefit to the UWV. In time, this obligation
converted into an obligation to conclude agreements on wage payment
at discharge and (preventive) to invest in training. When the effect is



CDA election program 2012-2017

pecific attention to SMEs. On balance, the
b
burdens for SMEs are not increased. That can be arranged for instance by SMEs to allow pooling excess.
• The CDA represents a fair and equitable severance system, whereby a
place careful consideration, making arbitrary dismissal impossible
is. Flex is flexible and firm to firm. We want people with a flexible
employment in a better position on the labor market and society
bring. Social partners and government agree on a new
balance between flexibility and security on the labor market, thereby also
the ability to issue new permanent contracts with flexible
a period of five years. So we offer people rather than job security
job security.
• Special attention is paid to the labor market position of (unemployed) elderly. Employers get a premium for (unemployed) older persons
to be taken.
• Young people have a difficult starting position on the labor market, with rising youth unemployment and few prospects for a lasting agreement.
Therefore we need a task force on youth unemployment.

Work Capacity
• We want to build on the idea behind the Law Work Capacity: who can not earn the minimum wage should not for that reason
sidelined. This applies to anyone with a disability or chronic
illness can not participate fully in the labor market, through reduced
productivity and employability.
• Therefore I make a wage subsidy in such cases or permitted a brief wage dispensation. The municipality provides an additional
payment of up to the minimum wage.
• The Sheltered Employment Act, the Wajong, the Employment and Assistance Act and the Act to invest in young people included in the new scheme. For young people who complete and
permanently incapable of work, the Wajong remains.
• Who now works in Social Work (SW) or Wajong benefits
is also going to work under the new scheme. Further investigation will be what this must mean for existing rights.



Everybody

• New participants are rewarded as much as possible on the basis of collective agreements
the sector in which they operate. This promotes the outflow from the arrangement.
• Municipalities are given the freedom and resources to schemes in the field of
work, support, transportation, etc. to put volunteering in a coherent manner in order to promote participation and thereby concentrate on
directorship.
In addition, attention is paid to the differences between regions.
• We find a necessary social agreement with employers and trade unions
more about internships and jobs for people with disabilities. Also that
is corporate social responsibility!

new solidarity
• For entrepreneurs without employees (self-employed), it is often difficult to own
organize income protection. This requires special attention.
Especially good education is required. Freelancers have a pension
can build without power in the event of bankruptcy by
creditors can be addressed.
• Each working - including a self-employed - should be able to take out disability insurance at a reasonable cost. This can be achieved by a national voluntary disability insurance
realize freelancers.
• Insurers will have to meet that need. But new circles
solidarity can play a role: groups of self-employed with
each deposit money in case one of them is sick or prolonged periods without
seat assignments. They must also establish union pension funds, which they can participate voluntarily.
• The transition from one job to another must be the same as for civil servants
for employees in the private sector. The civil law is therefore
aligned with labor law. The distinction between redundancy and
WW is completely eliminated.



CDA election program 2012-2017

Fraud
• Fraudulent use of benefits will not be tolerated. This undermines solidarity. We therefore face a penalty approach. Fines upwards and
the fraudulent amount also has to be repaid.
• We want to link the municipal administration with the tax, UWV, municipal social services and private parties with safeguards for privacy.

Social flat tax

• The CDA opts for a flat tax with social solidarity levy. The CDA
seeks to shift taxation from labor to consumption, labor is taxed too heavily. The current income tax system is
unnecessarily complex, encourages excessive borrowing and discourages labor. The
CDA therefore calls for a simplification. The introduction of a social flat tax
has great advantages. For everyone then applies the same tax rate
approximately 35%. Thus, the tax system simpler and earnings
within families no longer treated differently. Promotes a flat tax
economic growth and jobs.
• From the standpoint of solidarity, it is justified that there is an additional solidarity tax for top earners. For lower and middle there will be no substantial negative income effects through the
introduction of social flat tax may arise.
• For entrepreneurs there will be a simple entrepreneurial gains, which
stimulates growth, regardless of legal status. Because of these simplifications can
substantial savings in the bureaucracy.



Everybody

Consultation Model
• The Dutch labor relations are characterized by wanting to take joint responsibility for the future, along the shoulders
underneath. We must cherish and modernize. The co-determination legislation is often too strict straitjacket.
• In collective agreements, there will be more room for customization and options.

Save
• A new silver fleet arrangement as an incentive for young people to
save.
• The CDA wants to prevent people building indebtedness. That
begins with its prevention (prevention) through better debt registration and financial education. In addition, the CDA wants municipalities
people with problem debt help find a way out.



CDA election program 2012-2017



Everybody



PHOTO | ANP Marcel Antonisse

CDA election program 2012-2017

7. Solid finances
"The credit crisis and the subsequent debt crisis have taught us that
Our prosperity is not obvious. We have to earn it again and again;
past successes are no guarantee for the future. Here, too,
again that sustainability in the long term and the common good leading
must be. Nonprofit groups of bankers and investors in financial markets liberalized shot led to the credit crisis. But consumers
also wanted to borrow at low interest rates, live in expensive homes and invest high
returns. The CDA will continue to work for thoroughness when it comes to the
goes finances. That means solid financial policy, a reliable financial system and healthy finances for individuals and companies. "

We are a solid match.
We choose for the future of the next generations.
We want our children and grandchildren are not saddled with huge debts which we have made.
We want to begin after this government period with the pay off
our fault.
We make our balance their books in order, so that revenues and expenses
The government weather are in balance.
We create space for work and opportunities for entrepreneurs.
We opt for tax cuts for families and businesses, so that they have the opportunity to acquire enough work and income.
We encourage through the tax "work" and "greening".
We want to achieve a fairer system of income tax through
a flat tax with social solidarity levy.
We are working on a national residential pacification, focusing on debt reduction and more movement in the housing market.
We want to put an end to the bonus culture.
We insist on greater lending to companies.
We want pension funds to invest more in the Netherlands.



Everybody

Public finances
• The CDA chooses the size of the public sector in the long term weather
bring back to the level before the financial crisis. The last
years, the seizure of the government in our economy by over 5% of GDP increased. Weather fiscal sustainability of public finances should be in our
eyes are achieved through a series of reforms. For example, the structural
expenditure levels are reduced and Netherlands gets more 'air'.
• At the end of the next government's term will be on view again
a structurally balanced budget. This requires sustainable growth that goes along with the necessary cost reduction and reforms. The CDA
finds that the national debt should be reduced.
• This means a reduction of the structural deficit by a further
0.5% per year. We can not structurally spending more than we have. The
debt is therefore reduced again within 10 years to up to 60% of GDP.
• The aim is that new state debt balance within the same generation
be repaid.
• Part of the consolidation of public finances is also reducing the
burden. It ultimately the possible investments, profits
businesses and the spending of citizens who contribute to the economic
growth. Thus they deserve tax cuts. This applies, in particular,
for the middle.
• We structurally invest in innovation, education and sustainability.
• We will reform the labor market, health care, pensions and housing.
This demonstrates stewardship for future generations.
• The CDA wants we look critically at the fair sharing of the
current pension account between young and old, rich and poor. The core of a
future pension preservation of collectivity with more choice and
soundness.
• We want to cut through reducing bureaucracy, particularly in
health care, in education and in government. Everyone in the public and semi-public sector can earn more than the Balkenende norm.
• We advocate for these two years a baseline for the whole public sector. Also in the private sector is encouraged wage moderation.



CDA election program 2012-2017

Housing
• Restoring confidence in the housing market requires a comprehensive plan,
which both sales and the rental market and bring good agreements maaktmet corporations, municipalities, builders, financial sectors, pension funds.
• Good step is to do so (innovative) reform of the mortgage
aimed at phasing out the mortgage debt as inter alia agreed in the Spring Agreement. We will also, together with local authorities, creating a coherent package of measures to the (local)
to stimulate housing through, for example reduction of land allocation rates, lease, financing for land sales, guarantees and (regional) coordination of the housing market. For the purpose of acceleration of
the reduction of the debt of those who already have a mortgage, it is a
tax repayment bonus desired and funders will have the opportunity
open for at least 20% annually without penalty repay existing
mortgages. It should be examined whether and how funds into early retirement
arrangements and life course schemes to use for repayment of
existing mortgages - without the intervention of the tax authorities.
• We support collective / cooperative commissioning and encourage
new homes better suited to the changing housing needs of
(future) residents.
• An additional package for "starters" in the housing market is necessary.
This package consists of the following: introduction of a construction savings scheme and
increase in what can be tax-paid. Would Rules
for starters in providing a mortgage should be less strict
be.
• everyone has the same rate with the introduction of social flat tax
mortgage interest.
• A balance between rent, economic value and
quality of life is a requirement. Housing associations will have more opportunities to invest in combinations of housing and care, living proof
and more generation homes and rental housing for the middle classes. They
get more space to fix rents based on the actual
rental value of homes, provided they low-income families than



Everybody

also give a discount on the rent. We are going to agree on a covenant.
Give the corporations not fulfill their social responsibility, they will still have imposed a levy. Tenants in housing associations and local authorities have a prominent role in surveillance. The Netherlands has a
number of regions with a strong population decline - decline - and a changing population. This fact calls for unique solutions
when it comes to housing and amenities.
• Even corporations wield the human dimension. If all concerned about it agree, a corporation can defuse or even merge. Starting point
is that in social housing is that housing cooperatives
small organized and the general interests of society
pursue.

Financial sector
• The financial sector should lead to the interests of its customers and put
must ensure integrity of financial product, not only for consumers but also for financial institutions themselves.
• The bonus culture at banks must end. Bonuses may not
more than three months' salary per year.
• To strengthen the integrity of the financial sector, will be called. Introduced 'banker's oath. "
• Dutch pension funds contribute from their own funds for up to five
15% to the domestic capital supply and investments in our
economy. That's way too low. The government, pension funds and banks
will sign an agreement, provided that this should not compromise
go of achieving returns on pension assets, which
it more attractive for our own pension funds to invest in the Dutch economy and housing finance. Pension funds can invest their pension funds in venture capital and innovation
new activity.
• There will be more funds available for lending to businesses and mortgage grants for the housing market. A new sound
calculation method leading to stable policy by pension funds in the
terms of premiums. In a European context, it is essential



CDA election program 2012-2017

that the Netherlands maintains autonomy over the pensions accrued in the Netherlands.
• We call for the launch of alternative sources of financing,
particularly through credit unions and crowdfunding.
• In the pursuit of sound finances are sustainable in the long term
and the public interest prevails. This is true from our core value of solidarity that when it comes to income policy, the strongest shoulders the heaviest
burdened.



Everybody



PHOTO | ANP Robin Utrecht

CDA election program 2012-2017

8. Decisive government
"How can the great challenges of our time can be taken up now
and who has what task? The CDA wants the government to release what the
Society itself can do and ordering occurs where markets fail. True
Standards of behavior in society come CDA expects decisive action from the government. An effective government may depend on its
task of differentiating into her role: standardize, regulate, direct, facilitate, monitor and sanction. "

We believe in the vitality of society.
We embrace the idea of ​​powerful, active society which is neither
the government does patronize, nor let the market push away.
We see the government as an organizing force, which creates space for social initiative, encourages citizen participation, vital coalitions work
lets do and let a thousand flowers bloom.
We offer space for citizens and businesses, people and organizations that
take matters into their own hands.
We stand for a government that values ​​the rule of law and democracy
protects.
We are in favor of a strong decentralization policy, focus on recognizable provinces, space for regional cooperation and strong communities that are close to the citizen.
We are in favor of cooperation between levels of government themselves.
We do not believe in structure debates on domestic administration, unproductive and pointless as they have proved.
We advocate a political culture of cooperation.
We are politicians who behave decently, inside and outside parliament
We want more women and people with other cultural backgrounds
more places in politics and government.
We build a credible government in which Dutch identify themselves.



Everybody

Government
• The government is there for citizens. And not vice versa.
• The government stands for values ​​that are vital to the rule of law and democracy.
This requires an active and demonstrable integrity policy.
• The CDA is committed to a high degree of diversity within the government.
• juridification, deregulation and decentralization are urgently needed
citizens and civil society much more to put their strength.
• Deregulation requires that the government learns the art of letting go more
trust in people and organizations, and better cope with errors. Plus:
less interference with the execution, more focus on results, Space
to experiment, more emphasis on horizontal rather than vertical accountability. Politics requires less respond to incidents and more
moral leadership.
• Where possible and appropriate, taking a public body call
with a citizen or business or takes the initiative for a personal interview rather than correspondence by letter. If desired, mediation is deployed.
• Supervision from the government is complementary to and supportive of the social role of the institutions. It does not take the place of legislation and policy development. In this context, we call for more horizontal
oversight and less supervision from above. Additionally serve supervisory bodies
not to behave like pseudo legislators.
• The monitoring and enforcement of rules is less stressful. Those who
good behavior, it is checked less frequently than those who misbehaved.
• The process of decentralization of state to provinces and municipalities go
unabated. The financial autonomy of the provinces and municipalities
are the starting point. Decentralizations to be given adequate budgets. However, it is more necessary cohesion.
• Provinces focus on their core business. WGR + region be lifted.
• The CDA wants the current number of representatives in the First and Second
Room and maintain at provincial and municipal level.
• Autonomous administrative bodies and agencies are under scrutiny.
Their value must be demonstrated. Where possible, the tasks
back to society.



CDA election program 2012-2017

• The CDA wants that a uitdoofbeleid held with contracts above
Balkenende norm for public broadcasting
• The government should encourage the use of 'open data' as much as possible.
• Modern technologies make it possible to very much information about
to collect persons. Sometimes it is in the interests of people, but often
information is also a means of power of large (commercial) organizations. Not
everything possible must also be allowed. The CDA represents the
importance of privacy and strives to help people as much as possible
determine what information is available about them.
• We investigate With regard to the distribution of seats in parliament
opportunity for a German system: one vote for a party and one voice on
a regional candidate

Social participation
• The CDA will actively seek new forms of financing for social
projects. Social projects by and for the community; charitable
institutions, housing corporations, industries, pension funds or insurance companies are encouraged to invest in this so-called social enterprises.
• To vital coalitions between citizens, businesses and organizations from the ground
lift, there will be experiments in which citizens and businesses as 'shareholder' in social issues can invest with ideas and money
in society'.
• Civil society organizations in healthcare, education, welfare, culture and living
will need to be well rooted in society. By funding
to run through people's demand, they should be more active on the wish
and needs of citizens, patients and clients focus. These organizations
must be organized more democratic. Citizens and businesses
can take part in these social organizations. Requires the
a fundamental change in government regulations.
• There is more collaboration between municipalities and civil society organizations, housing and youth services needed for both the livability



Everybody

of the city and the development of rural areas.
• Partnership with churches and other religious organizations adds value.

Board
• Large-scale, top-down structural changes in the domestic
Directors are doomed to fail. To reduce the administrative burden, the CDA opts for a gradual, broad-based and more natural
approach.
• Municipal reclassifications are only acceptable if the churches there
themselves to decide, or if there are specific administrative or financial bottlenecks that otherwise than by reorganization to solve.
• The position of municipalities, the "first government" is strengthened, especially
in the social domain (decentralization in the fields of employment and social security, the EMEA guidance and youth care).
• The distribution of funds from the provincial and municipal, should take into account specific problems and opportunities in shrinking areas.
• Interregional cooperation deserves in the field of traffic and transportation
be encouraged. This goes hand in hand with decompartmentalisation of existing regulations (including school transport, medical transport).
• Water boards are an important democratic element of the Dutch constitution. Because the water boards themselves raise their taxes
supervision from society is necessary, to be implemented by a democratically elected government immediately. The water board elections take place simultaneously with municipal elections.
• Commodity and industrial modernization; at lower cost
the PBO new-style can contribute to sustainable innovation. Good
functioning branches and professional organizations are essential to a vibrant and sustainable economy. The challenge is to achieve more professionalism and innovation.
• The rules regarding the duration of the redundancy scheme of political office holders be equated with the rules applicable to the unemployment duration. There
there is a job requirement.



CDA election program 2012-2017

The kingdom
• The Netherlands is investing in the Kingdom of the Netherlands, such as after the constitutional reforms of 10-10-10 has been established: a unique partnership structure of Netherlands with three independent countries (Curaçao,
Aruba and Sint Maarten) and a special relationship with three islands (Bonaire, St. Eustatius and Saba).
• Within the Kingdom of the CDA democratic values, corporate
governance, financial soundness, administrative integrity and respect for each other
points that we address each other as equal partners.
• With regard to the Caribbean Netherlands (Bonaire, St. Eustatius and Saba), there
a particular concern for living standards and health care.

Criminal law
• Who breaks the law deserves severe punishment. But a unilateral approach
for crackdown and harsh penalties (repression) is not working. Deployed goes
be aimed at increasing the probability of detection and a broad, preventive approach and
attention for the gradual, well-supervised reintegration. This is more effective than punishment alone. It is a good, balanced approach.
• For capital gains or offenders stricter punitive measures, which also express
that citizens and society against this must be permanently protected.
• Who will be punished, go to work to prevent recurrence.
• Justice, municipalities, youth and education work together as much as possible
to prevent a convicted repeat offenders. This is particularly true for
the large group of 14-24 year olds. The goal is that convicts leave prison better than they went in - and not in a criminal career
start.
• Youth should not stop abruptly at 18 years. If necessary, there must be a
follow-up program for young adults are available.
• Adolescents Criminal law should be regulated by law.
• A tough approach applies not only to violent crimes, but also for
addressing fraud and cybercrime and child pornography.
• To increase safety and sense of security, will also be opportunities



Everybody

as CCTV and prohibited area can be expanded. Arm Holdings is much stricter controls (stop and search) and punished.
• Judges should go, and in a language that is understandable to the victims and stakeholders, explain why they impose a certain penalty. The
position of victims deserve further improvement. In serious criminal cases
victims, the judge will have to decide first whether a suspect
the real culprit is, then the victim will have the opportunity to bring his experience in respect of the offense forward (two-phase structure). The compensation for a victim wherever possible
included in the conviction of the perpetrator, preventing it from above
longer enter civil proceedings against the offender.

Drugs, alcohol and tobacco
• Cause Excessive use of alcohol, tobacco and drug use
so much damage that a more robust approach is needed.
• To prevent excessive use of alcohol and tobacco, the age limit for the purchase and possession of alcohol and tobacco will be raised to 18
years.

• Reducing the number of coffee shops will fully be put.
Especially in the vicinity of schools. The CDA will eventually ban all coffee shops. The weed pass, which is only accessible for coffee shops
adult residents of the Netherlands, is necessary.
• The trade in drugs, street sales, the illegal sale and trade
around schools and restaurants will be dealt with more severely.
• The awareness against drugs, tobacco and alcohol is insistent: we must get rid of the image that alcohol, tobacco and drugs are not dangerous.

Police and justice
• A national police to get there. The aim is more police on the streets and less
behind the desk. Digital services is encouraged.
• The local anchoring of the police gets repercussions in the new police law.



CDA election program 2012-2017

• Ability Using an adequate and sufficient financial sanctions system
municipalities with BOA's effective in tackling nuisance, minor annoyances and ditto traffic. It must maintain multiple
(small) traffic also become a matter of wardens.
• The fight against crime requires a great leap forward. The
current solution rate of crimes (burglary dwelling example
less than 20%) is unacceptable and must be raised. Bureaucracy must be fought with the police and constables should again agent may be: at
firm action should they receive guidance and support from OM.
• Also, long delays in criminal trials are an eyesore. True
possible should be done fast track, also in the interests of the victims. Not just occasionally, with major events, but also in
weekly summary justice seats for regular crimes.
• Legal and social complex forms of violence, harassment and intimidation, including by groups of young people who threaten individuals or groups in a community, are immediately and adequately addressed under the direction of
a specialized team of investigators and lawyers.
• Indecent behavior requires a more direct, firmer approach. Not only through
more education, but also through stricter and faster penalties. It's about
offenses as indecent, loutish 'behavior, pollution and traffic misconduct
which are often the main complaints from residents. Aggression against police,
ambulance, fire and other public employees should be much stricter
be addressed. If such public servants are intimidated or
threats, anonymous reporting is possible.
• The local community is involved in setting priorities
of the police, such as in Rotterdam. This example should be followed;
in more places need this kind of close cooperation between the police, and
retailers, caterers and residents tried.
• Child abuse and child abuse, a great evil, is high on the
political agenda. The abuse, neglect and abuse of children is so severe that approach on a broad front is necessary. It's not possible
without social alertness. The collaboration between the police, and
Council will be intensified for the child in that area.
• Attention to domestic violence is still necessary. The national program for tackling violence by put in dependency relationships. With special attention to elder abuse.



Everybody

• Trafficking in human beings is unacceptable and counter gets high priority of police and justice. This is accompanied by an adequate care
Victims (including prostitutes, foreign labor).
• Because our vital digital infrastructure is vulnerable, so will the government
targeted investments in research into technologies against cybercrime
go.
• The government needs to use internet no direct impact (blocking, filter) exercise, but are focused on informing and
promoting Internet safety.
• For both private parties and government should always be sought
decentralized storage and storing data as short as possible.
• The data retention should be reviewed and rules on which the data
when can consult, should be strengthened.

Judicial power
• procedures are less formal, where possible, to begin by
Promoting modern Dutch language. The court is open to all and affordable.
• The focus will be more on the hearing in court, where parties
also literally meet each other.
• Possibilities of digital Procedure, where possible, expanded.
Electronic records are the rule.
• To relieve the judiciary, where possible more use
of alternative dispute resolution and procedures are accelerated,
shortened and simplified.



CDA election program 2012-2017



Everybody



CDA election program 2012-2017

Appendix I - Glossary
AD: Associate Degree (AD A program is a two-year program it.
is part of a bachelor's degree program and creates a legal diploma:
the Associate Degree. (Source: minOCW)
Agents of change: someone who is committed and inspires others to a major change in a country.
ANBI: Steun
ASC: WWF and the Dutch Sustainable Trade Initiative (IDH) work
the establishment of the Aquaculture Stewardship Council (ASC). ASC is a
independent organization responsible for certifying farmed fish.
(see also MSC, source: www.wnf.nl)
BOA: Superb investigating officer
Broad day packages: coherent and continuous supply of education, childcare and leisure facilities for schoolchildren and parents based
of need and can make use of their own choice
Breeders exemption: The breeders' exemption. Only in PBR exists
the breeders' exemption (provided for in Article 57, paragraph c, of the Zaaizaaden Planting 2005). The breeder's exemption means that breeders without
prior permission
the holder of the right may carry out operations for the
breeding new varieties. These new varieties without the authorization of
the original holder of the right to commercially
exploited. (Source: Min of Agriculture, Rapport glorified business, April 2010)
Crowdfunding: involves many small investors invest an amount in
a goal which they feel involved. Stakeholders give all
a relatively small amount of money that add up to one big investment that the goal can be achieved. (Source: www.komjeook.org)
Decentralised energy: energy that no longer takes place centrally by large power plants, but by citizens or businesses, mostly small-scale and sustainable manner.
Delta Fund: Public Fund for flood protection and freshwater supplies, the costs are spread across all Dutch and over several generations. (Source: www.rijksoverheid.nl)
Discretion: The clearance of a qualified driver for
take a decision, where a legal rule is deficient.
Primary care: Primary care is where you without a referral and on its own initiative to step plan. For example, the doctor, dentist, physiotherapist



Everybody

or midwife. But also includes a social worker or a psychologist
below. (Source: www.rijksoverheid.nl)
Emissions trading system: Emissions Trading System. Emissions give countries or companies the right to emit certain greenhouse gases and other harmful gases.
Energy Cooperation: self-organization of producers and / or consumers, focusing
on achieving economies of scale.
FTE: Full time equivalent. One FTE is a full working week.
Genetic engineering: The targeted man changing the hereditary
material of an organism, giving the organism properties gets that
it does not occur naturally.
Green Deal: The Green Deal will help citizens, businesses, municipalities and other parties to achieve sustainable initiatives. For example, raw materials and water (including biodiversity), mobility, energy and energy saving
(Source: www.rijksoverheid.nl)
GW: Constitution
HBO: Higher Vocational Education
Agriculture Councils: From keeping the various Dutch embassies staff of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Agriculture and Innovation
(EL & I) is engaged in trade, implementation of policies and knowledge. Such an employee of the Ministry of EL & I at the embassy called a
agricultural attaché or agricultural advice. Agricultural councils and agricultural attachés
promote the interests of agriculture, food, fisheries and nature. They
are appointed for a period of four years. (Source: www.rijksoverheid.nl)
Credit Unions: are not striving to gain specialized deposit banks
where members of the union savings deposited a fee of
interest. The money is lent to members (consumers and / or producers)
after a credit decision is taken by the board. Only members can
savings and / or credit transactions do with the bank. Members of the public have to be interconnected by a common characteristic or another, or
interests of its members as belonging to a particular profession, community, religion, or rural populations. Its members are the owners of the union
(Source: www.rijksoverheid.nl)
MBO Secondary Vocational Education
SME Small and Medium Business
MSC: is an abbreviation of Marine Stewardship Council. This is an independent,



CDA election program 2012-2017

international organization dedicated to the commercial fish in the sea for long
to guarantee term. The organization also wants the habitat of the fish
healthy. (see also ASC, source: www.wnf.nl)
NO: National Education Agreement
Teaching Assistant: Teaching Assistants working in primary, secondary and vocational education and adult education.
They have fewer responsibilities than teachers supporters. The tasks of a teaching assistant varies by school. Teaching Assistants
vote this yourself with the teacher they support.
ODA: Official Development Assistance, also known as the 'Official Development Assistance'
mentioned. Not all foreign investment funds as development aid, such as the deployment of soldiers to peacekeeping missions.
Environment Act: With the environmental code, the government wants regulations for land
simplifying and combining projects, making it easier to start projects. These are laws and regulations for rural and urban infrastructure, environment, nature and water. (Source: www.rijksoverheid.nl)
Open data: Term used to describe freely available information.
For open data government see http://data.overheid.nl
Residual heat: energy in the form of heat released during energy conversion,
For example, in industrial processes, which often will be lost. (Source: www.restwarmte.nl)
Offset: The offsetting of self-generated energy back to the electricity grid for energy consumed, leaving no
energy tax on the energy generated is paid. Netting behind
meter offset by one generator / load with one terminal that the energy
generating site. Netting behind the meter offset by a collective of
generators / consumers with multiple connections. (Source: www.1miljoenwatt.
nl)
SBBI: Social Importance looking after adjustment
SDE +: Incentive for Renewable Energy
Top sector policy / top sector approach: Public investment in research and
innovation in sectors in which the Netherlands excels: Horticulture & raw materials,
water, agri-food, life sciences & health, chemistry, high tech, energy, logistics, creative industries (source: www.rijksoverheid.nl)
Secondary care: Care that is accessible only after referral by a care in the first line, as a general practitioner (see also primary)



Everybody

UWV: Institute for Employee Insurance
Vital coalitions' coalitions (eg from citizens, organizations and government) that can come together to tackle these hunoorsprong not in logic
of institutions, but looking with inspiration, energy and results
go to tackle that work "(source: www.minvrom.nl).
VM2: VMBO MBO-2 (upper training VMBO basic vocational
pathway is combined with a program at MBO level 2. This creates
a new integrated training. The purpose of this experiment is that
more students can get a basic qualification at MBO level 2. The experiment will last until 2013 (source: www.minocw.nl)
Vmbo: Pre-vocational secondary education
Fee: Owners Association
VWO: Pre-university education
WO: University Education
WSW: Sheltered Employment Act
WW: Unemployment
Zzp: Self-employed without employees



CDA
Buitenom 18
PO Box 30 453
2500 GL The Hague

070 3424888
070 3643417
www.cda.nl
