And now
forward
D66

D66 election for the House of 2012/2017

And now
forward
D66

D66 election for the House of 2012/2017

Index

04 Introduction
06 New Prosperity


08? New growth
10? The chances of a green,
sustainable economy
11 Infinite Energy
12 Raw Roundabout as green power
12 Clean pays and polluter pays
13 Banks that support and serve
13 Prosperity

16 Choose before Europe




18 euro a cornerstone of our prosperity
19? To a completed internal market
which boosts the Dutch growth
19 more effectiveness, more democracy

20 Education





22 Education about teachers
23 Lifelong education
24? Amazing vocational
higher education and research
26 Education that works

Index

28 Health

50 Freedom by law





52 Straight
53 A hospitable Netherlands
54th International security and defense
55 Development develops
into international cooperation
56th International Citizenship



30 Make close, patient-centered
32 Mental health
33? S own responsibility, control
and preventing demand for care
34 Quality in the curative care

36 Direction Pointers D66
38 Space





40 Nature
41 Sustainable Agriculture and Fisheries
41 Housing
42 Public Transport and Mobility

44 V? Rijheid by
self-determination




46 Self-determination in health care
47 Protect Privacy
47 Digital protect freedoms

58 V? Rijheid by
democratic governance
62 Culture




64 Give art and culture space
64 Vital heritage
65 Media and public broadcasters

66 Financial framework
Goals, principles and building blocks

D66 election for the House of 2012/2017

Introduction

Where we are going with the Netherlands?
D66 works towards a world in which man again
central. Free people who should not be limited
by rigid systems, strict rules or inadequate stamps and prejudices. Free to
think and do. People who take initiative,
shape their own lives and those of loved ones
and thereby to society. For this offer
we maximum space. Space and opportunities to get the best out of yourself and others. Since the fruits
to pick from and share with others. In our
world people are not alone. A man is not
island. We are looking at each other, need each other.
Interconnected, in confidence, with care and
responsibility for each other, for our environment and our common future. Who stumbles
is helped to his feet and encouraged
independently stand. That is liberal, that's
social.
In the Netherlands our children grow up safely. Starts
work with a diploma. Uplifts and stimulates education. Care is not a concern, but accessible,
solidarity and affordable. We are not averse to clean
energy and our economy sustainable. His nature
culture and a source of inspiration for everyone,
not a luxury for the few. We live in a constitutional state
based on freedom instead of fear.
Our Netherlands is moving. On a continent
with one powerful political union. A country full
enthusiasm has an eye for the rest of the world.
There is no reason why we should not prosperous,
healthier, happier and more harmonious can
life. A life for our children, still
is better than ours.
D66 wants to be the voice of those Dutch nationals
believe that we should develop our country further
a leading, internationally oriented center of economic and cultural activities. A country of social cohesion and a
quality of life and nature. Realized
in a climate of development, space and freedom. A country which thus constitutes a source of inspiration for ourselves and the rest of the world.

How do we get there?
We have been talking about cuts, but we
just give every year more money. The cabinets of recent years have themselves and us
told that "spending less is more 'same
is like cutting back. Every year we give 18 billion more
than we take in, which is almost 1100 euros
every Dutchman, 2400 euros of additional debt by
family. We now have over 400 billion
debt. Simply said that more than 53,000 euros
debt for every household. That can not continue,
a change of course is desperately needed. No one can
infinitely more continue to give out than comes in.
You can not continue to fill holes with holes.
Money is not our goal but a means;
04

Introduction

we want to maintain in the coming years what
we have built over the last century. And build.
The Netherlands has for years stood still. Economy, education, health care, mutual solidarity and self-reliance are in need of maintenance.

We only come from the current standstill by
purposeful, determined and rapidly create room for new growth. By space
talent and entrepreneurs, sustainable growth in energy
and raw materials, growth in emerging markets,
more attention to SMEs, a functioning labor market for older and reforms
the housing market, the labor market, pensions
and healthcare. Investing in education as the engine.

D66 opts for Europe. Our peace, security
and prosperity we have an important part to
thanks to European integration. The financial
crisis is adamant shown that many Member States
the European Union, despite the agreements on,
have failed their economies competitive
making, effective supervision to organize their banks and bringing their public finances in order. That is not too much, but too little
integration. The Netherlands we have in mind
can only be developed into a strong, safe
and prosperous Europe. Therefore we are in favor
a further integration of Europe. Priority
for maintaining the euro, a budget
focused on growth and working towards a genuine
democratic political union.
Abstract debate about deficits soon transcends
percentages. But why do we find 3% deficit
2013 and the budget in order in 2017 so important? In the first place to the downward spiral
unacceptably high levels of debt, higher interest rates,
larger debts, even higher interest rates and so forth
occur. There are limits to the demands that could put public spending on the economy. Therefore
we want the budget in order. Just
do not spend more than it receives. Not on
tick life. So it must be at home, so must it in
government.
The 3% standard is also the foundation for an appointment
with other countries with whom we share the euro.
Countries which we require that they comply with their commitments. Then we must do ourselves.
For D66, these appointments hard. We reserve
to our word. We make it clear to our partners and financial markets that we can our household accounts in order and would bring.
Doing nothing is not an option
The adverse consequences of doing nothing are immense.
Parties give each other anything and every week
with trepidation watching the polls
our country put on lock. That seems prudent behavior,
05

but irresponsible. D66 is convinced
to growth, investing in education, culture and nature,
Modern care and sound public finances good
for our society.
This is the Netherlands D66. A country of change, of progress. That's what these elections: choosing sustainable growth, choose
working and living in Europe, choose
freedom, space and health. We know which
steps we need to take. D66 which dares to also
the voter to present.
In the following chapters, you will find concrete
proposals for reforms, investment
and cuts. We make clear choices,
that provide new growth, more development,
more freedom and more space. D66 not pretty
talk. Our proposals will also hurt
and vested interests and expectations
undermined. We run there not ignore. What you
see is what you get. That is what you would expect from a responsible political party.
In this election you will find our plans
and proposals. On September 12, you decide.

Hans Wijers
Marty Smits

D66 election for the House of 2012/2017

New
prosperity

06

New prosperity

>? New growth
>? The chances of a green,
sustainable economy
>? Infinite energy
>? Raw Roundabout
as green power
>? Clean pays and polluter pays
> Banks that support and serve
>? Prosperity
New prosperity requires growth of our economy. In the politics
often talks about spending and little about income.
And if all people are talking about income taxes than are especially
a popular subject. Almost never about increasing
revenues grow. While growth in our economy the best
way to put public finances in order.
Growth is much more crucial reasons. Growth creates dynamics
and renewal. Growth enables dimes quarters
be. Growth creates jobs. Growth is the oxygen of
our society. Sustainable growth is the key to a prosperous
future.

07

D66 election for the House of 2012/2017

>
The government adjusts some modesty. After all, they let the economy
not grow. That do themselves. But the government can help.
She does not, of course by cutting less. When politicians
which claim is 'growth' above all a smokescreen for the fear of difficult
to conceal measures. First, the government needs to finance its
put in order, but at the same time they can create space and focused
invest. D66 wants to build a new earnings model
Netherlands, on the sustainability of our economy, at a fair
and open labor market, with a service-oriented financial sector. To a
country undertaking and flourishes. A country that after years of stagnation
weather improves.
New growth
Dutch entrepreneurship, innovation and action.
They go with confidence into the world.
Enterprising Dutch are impatient.
Their opportunities are up for grabs: in trading
emerging economies, cleaner and smarter production, in services, and in health care
in innovation. The Netherlands is a small country. Future
we will not achieve success by the largest and
to be strongest. But we can of our maneuverability make our strength. Anyone who knows to fast
adapting in an ever-changing world continues
walk ahead. This requires an increase in flexibility,
and adaptability. The lead that
The Netherlands has in areas such as the quality of the
labor, political and economic stability and the certainty that we offer entrepreneurs by other countries in the world
caught up. In the battle for it is more growth and
for more flexible and high-quality talent, entrepreneurship, sustainability and economic flexibility. These pillars form the core of the prosperity of
tomorrow. D66 has a growth agenda to Netherlands
letting grab these opportunities:
Make way for talent is the Top Talent
core of new entrepreneurship. D66 wants
Netherlands is a leader in the deployment of the
own talent and attract talent from outside.
Therefore we encourage skilled migration without integration and other barriers. D66 wants us to excel in science and vocational education,
with more attention to talent in education.
D66 invests in the Netherlands as a location for
talent, by providing a vibrant environment, thriving culture, recreation and nature.
08

We encourage more entrepreneurship to entrepreneurship, including by encouraging entrepreneurship from university, HBO and MBO.
Netherlands should be in the global top five for
simply start a business. And bankruptcy should not, as is too often the end of a
entrepreneurial career.
In SMEs easier on staff
Small and starting companies dare not too often
permanent staff to adopt. D66 wants the rules around
sickness, disability and working conditions (health and safety) for small businesses adapt,
so that with a lighter regime or opportunities
risk sharing will be faster and more frequently people
take. Obviously without raising new barriers to business growth. For employees with those measures aimed at more
jobs within SMEs, benefits. The measures
contribute to the fight against youth unemployment
and promoting diversity in employment.
Not everyone is looking for a job for life. Work
at a small startup company or a flexible loopban
can be an adventure.
More innovation The Netherlands is not progressing with investment in innovation. The trend of
must decline reversed. D66 supports appropriate mix of broad tax incentives and targeted
subsidies to stimulate innovation. In encouraging public-private or private-private partnership, bringing in European money
strengthening clusters remain necessary public investments.

New prosperity

Top Sectors choose their capital Business sectors and the related knowledge and
research institutions have established joint growth agendas. The policy choice
top sectors helps to strengthen the power of this knowledge clusters. However, now these sectors often
yet geographically fragmented across Netherlands. Physical
proximity makes collaboration and knowledge exchange
simpler. D66 wants to be selected within the top sectors for a geographic nucleus, where it
Most of the activities can concentrate.
People and companies from all over the world must
know that they know and businesses around agri-food, water or high-tech to the Dutch locations such should come Wageningen and Eindhoven.

also are the most expensive workers. That is a major barrier to adoption and to work
Keeping the elderly. The combination of periodicals, dismissal and unemployment lead to a 'golden cage', we want to put this open. D66 pulls money
for tax benefits for older workers
and wants the employer's risk for disease
55 +-workers treated differently. Demotion to
the end of a career and reduction of workload
more is the norm in bargaining. Ten
Finally D66 makes working beyond the official retirement age, as more and more people want,
simpler.

Interest expense in perspective
Innovation in line with SME entrepreneurs
SMEs are the Dutch courts engine and is very
innovative. By improving the access of SMEs in
regional educational and knowledge clusters above and smarter tapping
EU 'matching funds' to the SME innovation engine
be boosted. D66 also wants smart tax
measures private investment and pension funds in innovation and growth of SMEs
provoke.
Access to credit and capital as a result of the
banking crisis, it seems difficult for entrepreneurs
to obtain credit and capital. This enables them to cost-effective investments that stimulate their growth not fund. D66 wants the government,
together with pension funds and banks, which makes
unnecessary barriers are removed. We examine the need to re-establish a
National Investment Bank.
More work, higher wages, lower taxes
D66 wants working out of the crisis. Through more and smarter
work, we stimulate economic growth. This
creates room for a higher salary. We cut
income tax, so that people save up money. Dutch now work an average of 1377 hours
annually, the least of the industrialized world.
D66 wants gradually to a 40-hour workweek, the
Shorter working hours reduction and a mandatory day
deleted. The removal of barriers to part-time workers to work longer hours is also essential. In an era of aging we have everyone
need to maintain support among our public services (such as health care, pensions).
We can provide opportunities for older workers
elderly do not miss out on the labor market. However, the labor market for older workers is locked.
Older workers have great difficulty in a
to find new jobs. D66 wants training vouchers
introduce for elderly long-term unemployed
are. They may use these vouchers for schooling
or assistance with the job search.
Employers should also be encouraged
to take on older workers. The Netherlands
one of the few countries where older employees
09

(in billions of euros in public spending, state budget 2012)

12 billion
11 billion

10 billion

10 billion

7 billion

Foreign
affairs

Infrastructure

Interest Debt

Safety

From job to job security, we want the
dichotomy between people who stand along the side and
people who take smaller. People along
stand aside, now have little chance of finding a job.
Modernization of dismissal makes it hard
contract attractive again. Thus we create more
opportunities, especially for those who are disadvantaged
the labor market, such as young people. D66 has a
submitted private member's bill which has been chosen for a
dismissal system with a clear and simplified
dismissal procedure. The reasonableness of the dismissal
(and possible compensation) may establish in retrospect
be determined by the court.
Employers pay beyond the first six months
of the WW. Thus they have a financial interest in order
preventing unemployment. We want to prevent the system of disability
(WIA) is an avoidance route. These changes
We combine this with a shorter but higher unemployment.
For example, we provide an adequate safety net, but people are no longer dependent on the government than is necessary. We also invest in training to
increase job security.
Space for Entrepreneurs experienced entrepreneurs
great pressure. The government has failed time and time again
not to be made to this improvement. D66 wants here
change in spend an approach based on

Defense

D66 election for the House of 2012/2017

two principles: trust and simple
contact with the government. More confidence is
reflected in less detailed rules, for example, in
Occupational health and more control on results instead of
detail design. The entrepreneur is given the freedom
to choose at the opposite rules. There are fewer reports and more samples. D66 wants
that an 'ombudsman' comes to entrepreneurs,
focus on red tape and regulation.
Naturally enough confidence coupled with sanctions
this trust is violated. Easier contact with the government is reflected in the set
from one contact who takes control for entrepreneurs in their interaction with the government, but also
in the elimination of unnecessary costs (Chamber of Commerce, industry boards), ensuring procurement
are open to SMEs, professionals and self-employed professionals and a real lex
silencio licensing, whereby a license
is not automatically assigned when the government
time acting. D66 wants a simplification of the
environmental law, or with sufficient safeguards
environment and nature.
Growth in emerging markets Trade with the
abroad is an important driver under
our future growth. The strong export position
Netherlands on (sustainable) areas such as water, environmental technology and waste management, should be encouraged. It is the Netherlands, and certainly it
SMEs still very focused on trade with the EU. D66 wants
that trade with emerging markets like Brazil,
India and China is encouraged. And that worked
to be fair access for Dutch companies to these growth markets. In addition, D66 wants more attention to SMEs and more targeted, trade missions.
And of course we continue to build the business climate for foreign companies, especially those from
emerging markets.

We are behind in renewable energy
(renewable energy in Europe as a percentage of total
energy consumption per country, EurObserv'ER, 2011)

Sweden
Latvia
Austria
Finland
Portugal
Denmark
Lithuania
Estonia
Romania
Spain
Italy
Germany
France
Poland
Greece
Czech Republic
Ireland
Belgium
Netherlands
United Kingdom
Luxembourg
Malta

10

27.6
26.6
22.2
20.3
16.1
15.1
14.3
11.3
10
9.6
7.9
7.5
7.1
6.5
5.1
4.4
3.7
3.3
2.8
0.1

Mainports sustainably strengthen the ports
Amsterdam and Rotterdam airports
Schiphol and Eindhoven are vital links in our
International Trade and accessibility. Therewith
they are an important pillar of the Dutch
economy. D66 wants the main port function of Schiphol
therefore sustainably boost. To this end,
Schiphol to develop and to be selectively located in
put the sustainability of the business. D66 wants to a more sustainable aviation and
therefore supports the emission system, international
agreements on the taxation of kerosene and the establishment of a Single European Sky that much
fuel can be saved. Furthermore, for D66
collaboration between Dutch and Belgian
ports.

The chances of a green,
sustainable economy
For us, sustainability is an excellent opportunity to
To ensure economic growth. Always
new challenges led to new growth and innovation. And the challenges are there. In 2050 there will be 9 billion people in the world we live in dignity
existence wish to provide, within the limits of one
planet. Shortages of energy, food and raw materials will in the coming years more and become more.
Not only our children will pay the bill,
we find ourselves now already in our pockets: the
price of food, gas and gasoline rises. At the same time
create new businesses and there will be new
Jobs: the maker of solar cells, the factory of
sewage sludge fertilizer making, the breeder of sustainable
fish.
There are enormous opportunities in the Netherlands
renewable energy, knowledge and innovation.
We are behind, but can lead.
Netherlands as a sustainable leader has new
businesses, more jobs and stronger in competition with other countries. Sustainable growth provides the road
from our economic crisis. We have the expertise
and experience to realize this, but it works
Only if we seize the opportunity.
Now it is time to take a different path in definitive
to beat. The road to an economy that fits
the boundaries of our world. Away from an outdated
economic model based on burning, consume and digest, to an economy based on
on high-quality recycling, in which the natural
Our planet's resources in an endless
circle can be used.
Market and society now are ahead of the government. In many Dutch cities and towns by companies and individuals have already done considerable
put towards sustainability. Politicians must now
a big step forward: to reform our
energy, raw materials we use and
our use of water, air and soil. So that
Netherlands Europe's cleanest economy
is, with a footprint suitable
to our size.

New prosperity

We want a government that sustainability is central
notes with stable, consistent policy. A government that
simplifies and streamlines rules, which removes barriers and encourages innovation, including through
green investments. D66 wants businesses and people
encourage them to come up with green solutions
and so on a large scale to create new wealth.

Infinite energy
We reach a milestone. Clean energy and fossil
energy cost almost as much. Oil is becoming scarcer
and the price goes up. Our dependence on fossil fuels is risky and costly. The supply of renewable energy is potentially endless.
Therefore, D66 chosen for the development of the
technology for efficient renewable energy
to be able to make use of. Naturally wants D66
also continue to save energy. For the cheapest and cleanest energy is the energy you do not
used.
Clear ambitions in an energy Netherlands
has Europe's energy objectives for
2020, 2030 and 2050 agreed. D66 abides
these agreements. In 2020 Netherlands gives 20% renewable energy and annually we provide 2% energy savings. Our spot on the horizon is Europe
which can provide sustainable whole in 2050 in the own electricity demand. In order to reach that goal,
we started today. Therefore D66 wants the next government a national energy plan for 2020,
with concrete, measurable goals and a clear path
our ambitions for 2050. The core of this plan
is formed by energy savings in existing
buildings, energy-neutral new construction and by
more sustainable power to excite. Nuclear energy
D66 represents the bottom of the ladder in shaping
a sustainable energy supply, and serves on
no way subsidized by the government to
be. D66 wants the responsibility for
the implementation of this plan and all related
energy and climate matters in the hands of one minister. This ensures that we stay up steam at
reforms and provides a stable
energy investment climate.
Renewably generated D66 wants to share
Sustainable in our energy twice
will grow rapidly. So that in 2020 20% has been generated sustainably. This achieves a doubling of D66
the renewable energy subsidy (SDE + regulation), more
burning of renewable biomass in coal plants
and make it easier to generate their own energy on-roof or the upstairs neighbor.
Consistent and stable policy is crucial. Also
we explore with our neighbors if we can oblige energy companies to a minimum share of renewable energy after 2015. D66 wants
for all new power plants an emission standard
of 350g CO2 / Kwh. CO2 storage and reuse deserves support as part of an ambitious co2 BE11

sparingsbeleid. In addition, D66 wants the possibilities
storage at sea to develop the first and learning
co2 storage on land in neighboring countries. Development
sustainable biofuels and the growth of
the use does not come at the expense of food crops
or the tropical rainforest, are crucial. All biomass is sustainably certified. D66 also
on the certification of the environmental impact of the different fossil fuels.
Energy savings in the Netherlands too much energy is wasted. Therefore D66 wants the energy tax
revised to make additional investments to encourage as companies in energy savings or own sources
renewable energy, including geothermal energy for greenhouses or the use of waste heat. D66 wants
more energy savings in the built environment. In 2020, at least 1 million homes are isolated and sent to the Building
energy producing new buildings. Saving energy
means structurally reduce costs, but the payback is still a barrier to investment.
Therefore, there is an energy saving fund to finance investments.
Cross-border energy by working together with neighboring countries, we can accelerate renewable energy generation and cheaper. D66 wants
therefore bring together the energy markets.
Collaborate in the construction of networks, support for
renewable energy and market regulation. D66 wants
start with a joint network operator
a North Sea grid for renewable energy constructs.
And with a common EU policy where we
in North West Europe start with.
Farewell of natural gas through a fund
energy future gas is a relatively clean fossil
fuel, as well as this we have to use
reduce proceed. The Dutch gas bubble becomes clear quickly, while our households, especially cooking and heating with natural gas. In 2050, gas is not
longer a source of revenue for the state, but a
cost for households. So it is important
we develop alternatives. D66 wants a
Part of the proceeds of a natural gas extraction
fund set up, which we consider the investments in the
energy finance of the future. 'Benefit
also future generations of our bubble and
we avoid becoming dependent on imports of fossil fuels from unstable countries.
Ambitious climate The climate in the
crisis equally driven to the background, but the
challenge remains. D66 maintains the by
European leaders agreed on ambitious
CO2 reduction: 40% reduction by 2030, 60% less
In 2040 and 80% in 2050. To achieve less by reducing emissions and storage. For this it is important that
the emissions trading system will work better, for instance by reducing the number of allowances faster. D66 wants new binding international
climate agreements, where all the big emerging economies

D66 election for the House of 2012/2017

economies in turning. But UN negotiations
take time. At the same time will therefore be smaller country coalitions formed. D66 advocates
while cooperation with the private sector and
the development of innovative forms of financing, such as through a green investment bank. In addition, D66 supports the work of
the climate ambassadors and local climate agendas
such as in Rotterdam.

Commodities Roundabout
as green power
Netherlands itself has hardly any raw materials while
global demand increases. Wants to prevent D66
that the Netherlands is dependent on raw materials
unstable and authoritarian regimes and commodity prices are the assassin of our purchasing and competitiveness. Otherwise deal with
natural resources offers opportunities to entrepreneurs who waste it goes and takes responsibility on the use and reuse of those
resources by suppliers and customers. This way of thinking leads to new business and
struck new ground currents - the materials roundabout. We can use our knowledge of logistics, our
ports and our leading position in recycling
in this new industry leaders.
Sustainable Companies that produce durable
produce are the future. D66 wants green
leaders support and encourage by, among
other, a market for renewable raw materials
create. We therefore support the development of the
'Biobased economy'. D66 wants a mandatory share
of 25% sustainable materials in each construction project.
The government itself must default sustainable procurement.
Furthermore D66 wants the government appointments and innovation in chains - such as in the plastics and textile chain - stimulates. Producers, science
and bringing waste companies together. D66 wants
that the government itself sets an example: a waste-free
government.
Clever use reuse the materials roundabout runs on businesses that are innovative and cost-effectively close their circuit knowledge. Waste
means, after all, the loss of raw materials, and thus
costs. To encourage recycling will be a tax on the landfilling or incineration of reusable
raw materials. That includes waste that we in the
Importing countries. There will be a charge on
fertilizer because there is sufficient fertilizers for
reuse. The manure problem that we put into
a chance.
Schengen area for renewable raw materials
It should be easier commodities by Europe
transportable. Now, a CFL that is broken the
border no more about it, while one factory for quite
Europe could recycle these bulbs. D66 wants
the Netherlands with Germany and Belgium as a first step
12

barriers to transportation of raw materials can be reused taketh away.
Fair sustainable chains D66 supports initiatives
business and NGOs to make the fair and sustainable supply chains from raw materials,
including through here in the budget for development cooperation to make room for free. What
D66 is concerned remains Netherlands play a leading role.
Leader in international environmental policy
We can not just within the Netherlands.
Decisive international collaboration is necessary, starting in Europe. Many of our environmental issues such as climate, cleaner air, recovery
of the great rivers or the protection of the
North Sea, we can only solve with our neighbors. D66 therefore wants environmental cooperation across borders and cleaner air and maritime transport.
D66 also proposes an international environmental court
for that (international) environmental crime
tackles.

Clean and pays
polluter pays
Our economy depends on fossil fuels and recycled content. That is bad for the environment, nature and climate. Our tax system would
should discourage but now often does the opposite, for example, by the low electricity tax for the companies that are most
use. D66 wants green business, invest and consume more benefits. Because of the price of
To calculate pollution, and green business
and to stimulate innovation.
Investment climate for renewable energy and
co2 saving D66 joins the international G20 agreements where consensus is that
fossil fuel subsidies should be phased out. In the Budget Agreement put are important first steps. D66 wants to build on waivers by the Energy
and further reduce red diesel. D66 prefers a
co2 tax over the tax to coal as the choice
for letting the best technology to people themselves. In
European context, D66 tightening the
greenhouse gas emissions trading (ETS) to ensure
a stable and higher CO2 price is established.
A price that reflects social costs as it costs nothing to pollute water or air pollution will take place, everyone shares
the drawbacks and everyone runs for the costs of
the cleanup. D66 feels that these types of costs therefore
must be charged to the user: the
'Polluter pays' principle. D66 wants this principle
consistent practice, by example, a kilo stunner tax (high VAT) on meat and by paying
for car use. Furthermore, there are rules that pollution
limit. In recent years, it has been found that a number of

New prosperity

Companies routinely environmental and safety
transgress. D66 wants to see stricter enforcement.
'Offenders' who break the rules again and again
via a penalty system faster
addressed.

banking and low switching costs. By financial
institutions to undertake in addition to their regular offerings also provide a number of standard products
equation is simplified and competition
promoted.

Back support for green investments D66
wants investment in clean technology wages.
Therefore D66 maintains fiscal incentives like the green
tax credit in 2013 and we expand opportunities for investment tax credit for
energy savings and environmental investments through so-called EIA / VAMIL schemes.

Appropriate reward D66 wants perverse incentives
reduce by letting De Nederlandsche Bank
monitor the variable remuneration structure
Board of Directors, the higher and middle and merchant banks. D66 also wants a
"refundable option for bonuses, as proposed
by the De Wit Committee. Furthermore, we want
bonuses linked to performance in the longer
term and broader objectives such as customer satisfaction. Company and the shareholders remain responsible for the absolute and relative height
of a reward, under the condition that the above-
these risks are managed. For banks
State aid should receive tougher rules
funds.

Banks that support and serve
The financial sector was the mainstay of the global financial crisis in 2008 and is since then
a constant subject of discussion. On the one
brakes are crucial to our economy by
lending to companies and by providing
services for savings, payments and lending to consumers. On the other hand, they can, if they derail, causing major damage. D66 wants a
service and robust financial sector healthy
competition and clear customer focus.
Lending is an essential part of
our growth agenda. There are many measures taken, but a number of specific interventions is needed:
Risks in hand a series of measures
must prevent banks from unacceptable risks
take that precipitate from the public and the government.
D66 supports the extension of the instruments
of the Financial Markets Authority, the
Dutch Central Bank and the Ministry of Finance.
Specifically, D66 wants to ban trading on their own
taking by banks (the Volcker rule)
so that they do not take unnecessary risks.
Consumers remain sufficiently accountable
risks of their own choices by lowering
the limits in the deposit guarantee scheme. That is to
D66 preferably jointly, in a European context
settle. The required preparation by banks of living wills will simplify the handling of their possible bankruptcy, while the
divide between the consumer and the trade possible. D66 wants the buffers
banks increase through the capital requirements so that they
setbacks can wear better. This is combined with liquidity requirements. D66 wants these measures are embedded in supervision and arrangements
European level ("Union Bank"). It also increased the
the risk of the relatively large size of the
Dutch financial sector for our economy
to keep portable.
Customer focus D66 wants competition, associated
efficiency and customer service by enforcing the
transfer to another bank to make it easier. This can be done by, for example, be able to take it from your own bank account to another
13

We subsidize more dirty than clean energy
(subsidy fossil versus renewable energy into billions of euros, planning office
for the environment / NL Agency, 2011)

Fossil
(7.5 billion euro)

Durable
(1.6 billion euro)

More prosperity
New Prosperity, Better measure the household budget in order for future generations means
for D66 also keep better records.
Measuring what is truly of value and then
send real value. The burning of
gas, the consumption of clean water, and the digest
of natural resources costs, not revenues. And investment in your work, your education,
your health, your home and your own development are
no costs. Yet we in the Netherlands and worldwide adopt an accounting system that this measure does so.
GDP is rising and the government deficit decreases as we
burn more gas and spend less on education. Focus on such accounting does not result in
New Prosperity. D66 wants else and wants the
mathematicians of the Cabinet to measure what really
is of value. Without proper accounting is a net
housekeeping book value (s) of charge.
Robust Pensions In addition to the state pension and personal capacities are built up the collective
pensions, the foundation of the welfare of
current and future retirees.
Dutch have a pension pot of together
approximately EUR 900 billion saved up. By a

D66 election for the House of 2012/2017

higher life expectancy, lower interest rates and disappointing investment returns are pensions under pressure. D66 wants a neutral generation
solution to the current shortage, the pension pot
should not be consumed again. In an economy
increasing flexibility in the labor market
essential to our pension system more flexible
creating, for example, by making more space
for savings by individuals. When the build-up of
pensions D66 wants to save tax subsidies
limit for the highest incomes. Above a
income of four times the average income are required
savings and tax rebates really not necessary.
ZZPs given the opportunity for some
time to spare in the pension fund of their former employer and via a Premium Pension Institution
(PPI). D66 wants the boards of the pension funds have expertise and as much as possible reflect the participants. D66 has therefore
ensured that pensioners, like workers, now have a legal right to representation on the boards of their fund.
Higher retirement age D66 wants the state pension age
gradually increase to 67 in 2021. Thereafter leave
we automatically rise along with life expectancy. In addition, the retirement age is flexible:
people have freedom of choice about the age at which they start running the state pension. We help people
who later wanted to retire. Can also
people AOW take effect sooner. This is a godsend for those who are already with early retirement and
an income expected by the age increase. Who retires later gets higher
benefit, who receives a state pension before recording
lower payment.
Social security that activates Too many people
with a disability on the sidelines. This is not
social. D66 wants social security schemes
WAJONG, WSW and WWB placing together in one law.
The starting point is many people as possible to get started
get at regular employers. That let
people get involved and at the same time limiting the
inflow into benefits and social workshops.
The possibilities of people now in the old
arrangements are to be reviewed.
Municipalities will implement the new law. Crucial
that they have sufficient resources for counseling. Also partially disabled D66 wants to keep as much as possible to work.
This reform will be successful only if there are enough suitable jobs. D66 wants employers
support and encourage people who fall
under this law to take into service. If necessary
we change to more coercive measures.
Equivalent roles Anno 2012 work
women still fewer than men. Women also work more often part-time and earn less
than their male colleagues. D66 wants the barriers
to work away for women, think
thereby to counteract discrimination, bie14

den of leave options, accessible childcare and extended opening hours of shops and
Services.
Accessible childcare Netherlands now has
a complex system of child arrangements. There exist
many different allowances and deductions. D66
wants to be a simple and effective system having a limited
number of schemes. The emphasis is on the participation of the parents and child must be financially accessible. Income
Parents must be addressed. In childcare D66 is committed to quality, safety and pedagogical skilled employees
good command of the language. Obviously without this degenerating into excessive regulation.
Unnecessary barriers to solutions by parents
must be removed each other, but a
allowance for care by childminders - provided by the government - is only possible if
they are connected to a childcare center.
Poverty reduction through participation Work is
The best poverty reduction. Investing in growth and education is crucial. Naturally
there must be a civilized safety net for people who
can not work. Ten percent of children
younger than eleven years growing up in poverty. They have
twice as likely as an adult to
end up in poverty. These children deserve extra
attention. D66 wants them to participate fully and
odds get, for example when it comes to sports,
culture and education.
Free movement of workers EU Netherlands benefits
of open borders in Europe. It gives Dutch
the freedom to live in another country and
work. Migrant workers also contribute their
bit for the Dutch economy. The influx of immigrant workers, we should be in good
channeling. This means action against unfair
competition. Migrant workers may Dutch
not evade employment. Exploitation
employers is unacceptable and there must be hard against
be taken.
ZZPs grow More and more people choose
for a career as a freelancer. Adjust their own responsibility and flexibility in a modern labor market. Our social security lags
this development. As a result, many self-employed uninsured and do not save for their old age. D66 wants
ZZPs easier to attach to them with social services, based on freedom of choice.
Apparent Independence - the phenomenon disguised
employees are registered as self-employed there - must
be addressed. D66 wants a simple VARverklaring because it is too bureaucratic now. The
hour criterion should be a turnover criterion, so
we encourage them to grow self-employed. ZZPs can
access to a voluntary pension fund and
WIA to their disability risk
insurance.

New prosperity

Tax system promotes long-term
D66 wants investment corporation
so is lifted that the relative position of equity relative to debt
is strengthened. Disproportionate deduction of interest
is prevented herewith.
Koopzondag Municipalities will determine the
ability to fully determine whether stores also
on Sunday may be open. Now they may still
not. With extended opening hours, new
jobs created and is met
requirements include single people and people
with a busy job.
D66 wants protectionism measures
national companies benefit and harm developing countries, abolish. Among other by
European farm subsidies and import tariffs on
build.
Investing in high-speed networks D66 wants to
strive to provide the highest network speeds
the world. They form the basis for our digital
economy. This requires continuous investment in
mobile and fixed networks, which the government
must facilitate.
Make way for 'social enterprises' More and more
businesses are started with a social purpose as the core ambition. In countries like the UK,
Belgium and the US are such initiatives
the government embraced. Also organize in Netherlands
people feel this way, but the government continues
is lagging. D66 wants an appropriate legal
('social BV'), opportunities for innovative forms of financing and associated governance and disclosure requirements which social
stimulate entrepreneurship.

15

D66 election for the House of 2012/2017

Choose
for
Europe

16

Choose before Europe

>? The euro as a cornerstone for
our prosperity
>? To a completed internal market
which boosts the Dutch growth
>? More clout, more democracy

The European Union is in crisis. Netherlands can do three things.
Running from Europe, continue patching things up,
or addressing Europe and improve. Every political party must
now follow suit. For us it is clear. Europe is our peace,
security, and prosperity. In that order. We say Europe YES!
Over the past 60 years, the Netherlands, through European integration,
to become connected in the capillaries with the other Member States
the European Union. Europe is not a pipe dream, but a daily
reality. Now we must make the most of this reality.
Step by step, the Dutch Parliament decided there.
Not forced, but from a conviction that better Netherlands
off as the countries of the European continent along the way
walk lasting progress and peace.

17

D66 election for the House of 2012/2017

>
For D66, the EU is much more than an economic partnership or trade agreement. We are convinced that Europe
is essential for a prosperous future. In a world in which
continents instead of countries shots and challenges
such as safety, the environment and immigration are transnational,
it is crucial that Europe cooperates. Through relationships,
solidarity, understanding and tolerance forms of European integration
a guarantee of peace. It is precisely for Netherlands is European
collaboration a blessing. No country for its safety,
its political weight in the world and its economic prosperity
so dependent on dialogue, good relations and cooperation
with the neighboring countries.
The crisis shows that the EU still far from perfect
is. It is due to the non-acceptance of the
consequences of previous decisions. Our course
therefore remains fixed. D66 wants to improve Europe
create more powerful. By necessary steps
convert to a more democratic, more manageable
and more effective federal Europe. By choosing
For the euro - the most eloquent symbol of
European unity - and to do what it takes to her
to maintain. By faltering growth engine
to bring the single market back on track. D66 wants
a Europe which is ruled by the people themselves,
not by banks, financial markets or unnamed
bureaucracies.

The euro as the cornerstone
our prosperity
The euro has brought us enormous wealth and
is the foundation on which further economic and political integration can be built. A farewell
the euro would be very costly. The interests
great and action is needed now. D66 wants along four lines
maintain the euro:
Together control the risk of banks
The supervision of the European financial sector.
The still fragile national banks hold
governments hostage and make the inevitable
process of paying off debts and clean up difficult.
Banks must therefore may go bankrupt without
that taxpayers have to pay the damage and
governments end up in bad financial weather.
This is possible with a European deposit guarantee scheme,
18

requiring greater buffers for banks and
Bank Emergency Fund that can be used as
European banks threaten to fall.
Europe gives us much more than it costs
(expenditure and income in the EU per year)

Cost per dutchman

€ 230
Yield per Dutchman

€ 1,750
Budgets into balance, debt elimination
D66 is in favor of hard budget agreements.
Countries that do not comply with those agreements must be corrected. It is necessary that
authorities that are capable of in the core of their debts
to pay, but temporarily no money from the market
draw, provided reforms and cuts, can borrow money. A lender of
last resort 'is necessary. In addition, the ECB,
a major European emergency fund or under strict
conditions Eurobonds for specific purposes, are useful tools.
Where necessary, remediation along debts
For governments that are reasonably incapable
to pay off their debts should debt
possible under very strict conditions.
The Netherlands will, like the other EU member states must help prevent the

Choose before Europe

collapse of their banking system and their painful
economic adjustment process.
Together further It is imperative that we now full
committed to saving the euro. That requires not
only the said specific measures. It is
also time that we choose in no uncertain terms before Europe and 'us versus them' thinking behind us
leave. Netherlands would thereby be at the forefront and
not, as now, always just too late to participate.

A completed internal
the Dutch market
boosts growth
European integration has brought much prosperity and
still offers the best opportunity for growth. The
this calls for boosting growth promoting
trade, free movement of goods, services,
people and ideas. We create growth with investments in education and innovation, but also through cooperation with Turkey, Eastern Europe and North Africa
and more trade with countries like China, India and
Brazil.
A complete internal market, the EU must now quickly
the internal market for goods, services, capital and
employees and perfecting the internal digital
market completion. All obstacles must be out of the way
be culled. With a common economic policy promotes growth.
European funds committed to growth The current European budget is focused on the economy
yesterday and appears incapable of reform
to drive the European economy. D66 will therefore
a radical shift in investment in sustainable
economic growth and innovation. We seek appropriate financial space by phasing out income support to farmers and the focus of
Structural only the poorest regions
Europe. We want to direct more funding
of the EU budget, provided that citizens, on balance, will no longer pay.
Democratic control can be ensured
by the European Parliament.

More capable,
more democracy
To increase the strength of Europe is better
structure of the Union is needed. There is a need for more
effectiveness, more democracy and less bureaucracy
and overregulation. D66 wants a strong federal Europe
with more power in people.
European European should do what if something better
European than national can be arranged,
we do. The areas where it ideal for
are true: foreign policy, defense, trade, mi19

grace, energy, environment and combating international crime. With one European foreign
politics, one voice in the UN, IMF, World Bank and
the WTO, and with one joint diplomatic
service. Harnessing not mutually prevail, the large countries. D66 wants too
Dutch influence. This requires a strong
European governance necessary.
Things that people in the most densely can be controlled, such as education, health care, pensions and
social housing, we settle in the Netherlands and
our congregations.
For a real political union, we must move forward
with political integration. With a European
Parliament gets more power over the budget, all European policies and the tenure of individual members. With a
Commission with a smaller representative directly
elected President. Embedded in enforceable rights and open government. With a
Dutch government and parliament who asked,
active, transparent and well-prepared mix in the
decision in this federal Europe.

Netherlands also exports ratio
well within the EU
(export proceeds within the EU as a percentage of GDP, Eurostat, 2011)

-1%
-1.5%
-2%
-3%
-4%
-4.5%
-5%
-7%
-7%
-13%
-18%
-25%

Netherlands
Ireland
Slovakia
Belgium
Germany
Spain
Italy
Slovenia
Finland
France
Estonia
Greece
Portugal
Austria
Luxembourg
Cyprus
Malta

25%
14%
8%
3%
1%

D66 election for the House of 2012/2017

Education

20

Education

>? Education about teachers
>? Lifelong education
>? Outstanding Vocational Education,
higher education and research
>? Education that works

D66 is good for teaching the new engine of prosperity and
economic and personal growth. It ensures that
people find their way to and in the labor market. Good education
prepares people for an increasingly international society.
Good education is the engine of everyone's personal development
and happiness. We need it to shape us into mature,
independent and committed people. Education should people
encourage and give the opportunity to make the most of their talents,
a lifetime. Education should foster comprehensive development
and training in the field of knowledge, literacy and numeracy, but also on
the areas of social skills, creativity, nature and culture,
history and citizenship. In our education system must
development of head, heart and hands have a place. Then come
both the individual and the society forward. Therefore D66 investing
approximately 2 billion in Education.

21

D66 election for the House of 2012/2017

>
There's sand in the engine of education Netherlands. International
considering sinks the quality of our education away. Teenagers
and adults are not sufficiently challenged to the best of their
to get. Too many children come to school with a taalof calculating arrears. The shortage of good professionals is increasing.
Our intellectual toppers are insufficiently challenged.
Our teachers feel constrained by bureaucracy and not get
the appreciation they deserve. Parents are insufficiently involved
at the school. And the government is trying impotent with more and more rules,
standards and controls to improve the quality of education.
That must change. D66 believes that education in our society again
the attention and the quality should be that it deserves. The teacher in
the classroom is important, because that determines the quality of education.
Lifelong right to education for everyone, whether you're three or
are fifty-three. IJzersterk vocational education, in line with what
our labor market needs and where you really learn a trade. Lake
quality and focus on universities and colleges. Investing more
in research, in close collaboration between higher education and
business. With a government that controls on quality, and about
adult makes arrangements with the schools.
Education about teachers
Nothing is as important for the education and the quality of the teacher. D66 is investing in the development
and appreciation of teachers. The school has space
offer for professionalism. So that teachers themselves
can focus on their profession: giving
education.
Investing in the quality of teachers D66 wants
grade for the class. The quality of teacher training should be improved. We want
PABOs stricter entry requirements set in terms of motivation and knowledge. In all teacher training will focus on vocational D66
pedagogy and didactics. D66 takes it for granted that every teacher has an official capacity,
22

also in the MBO. To make this possible,
teacher training also offered part-time and
come for vocational teachers flexible programs. D66 wants a professional register for teachers and
retraining a further contribution to the quality of
teaching supplies.
Differentiating pay D66 wants it
teaching profession is more appreciated. An excellent teacher can earn more than a school or education manager. The reward of a teacher
should suit his / her level of education,
job structure should give you space. Next
D66 wants a good salary that teachers are given the opportunity and expectation to develop. A teacher
bijschoolt themselves may notice it in the salary. Also
D66 wants additional appreciation in terms of employment

Education

for teachers in disadvantaged schools and courses
which too few teachers are available, such as
Now science. All this requires institutions
good personnel, including assessments, training and addressing underperforming teachers. In order to make this possible is
enhancing the quality action plan for teacher
improving teacher rewards unabridged
implemented. D66 need teachers in shortage subjects in the years that they teach their student loans not
to pay back; it is proportional
remitted.

Education must be made easier.
Workers must be able to part-time training
follow MBO to master. And fifties who get stuck in the labor market get financial support to retrain.
Education is a responsibility of the
government, but is also an investment in yourself. That
D66 means that the government and the individual
(and sometimes the employer) must muster together the costs. As a hard condition that the probability of the
best out of yourself accessible to every person and
remains accessible.

More time to teach D66 wants a teachers
as much as possible of their time and with their
Students spend. Schools therefore have more
space for students, former students, researchers,
parents, practice assistants and companies to engage in education. Concierges also play an important role in relieving teachers. Through the
preventing abuses such as violence and bullying
they also contribute to social cohesion in the
school. D66 finds that the financing of the janitors should be part of the future lump sum of elementary schools. D66 also wants to use
encouraging digital tools and methods,
to improve education and the workload
to relieve teachers.

To education from 2.5 years D66 wants children from 2.5 years given the right to teach because the first years of life are critical in the development.
Parents can let their children participate in early childhood education or a front and 0-group, with at least one coach who has trained at HBO level.
D66 thus ensuring that any (language) arrears
toddlers are identified and addressed early.

Less bureaucracy at school, better quality and status of teachers demands a more professional
school, with more time and space for education. D66
want qualified teachers as much as possible
hours spent on teaching and not on unnecessary meetings, rules and reports.
D66 wants from rigid standards hour, because the relationship
between the number of hours and the quality of education is imperfect. The quality of education
According D66 benefits from customization for individual
students, professional teachers. Which should
are receiving space and trust. But once
the quality remains and a school is weak, gets
the government to set standards for example,
teaching time.
D66 equal rights for teachers will depend on the
practice that teachers in some schools under
the fact that they are living with a partner
same-sex be refused.

Lifelong education
It should not matter where your cradle stood,
how old you are or how rich your parents are, every person
has the right to explore her talents and
develop. That study entitlement begins with toddlers, to
possible delays in development as early
possible to counteract. The community school combines education and childcare, while parents involved
and have control. Secondary, vocational and higher education should reflect fast runners and with late bloomers. Up in the secondary
23

The community school D66 supports wide
schools. At the community school children get a
full range of development opportunities.
In addition to formal education provides the comprehensive school
Also nursery, preschool education, after-school care, sports and culture. Because of this wide
can offer the school more responsive to the individual needs of a child, and encourage talents
timely identify any deficiencies. D66 advocates
for a greater use of digital learning resources and
methods. For children who want to excel D66
schools an extra language or special program
can offer. For children with language delay will correct D66 bridging classes, summer courses,
buddy projects, or language coaching.
Modern freedom of education D66 wants the
freedom of education modernization. Parents base their choice of school less and less on the predicate
'Public' or 'special', but on quality, pedagogy, physical distance and atmosphere of a
school. That is why for D66 'school' is central, not
if she is 'public' or 'special'. D66 wants the opportunity to found a school on other bases
than the classic directions, for example, in an educational vision. And we want a bilingual primary school is also possible. D66 for all
schools, whatever their basis, transparently
their finances and performance.
D66 wants more flexibility in the interpretation of vacations and, where necessary, remove obstacles that. When school choice school costs may
for parents constitute a barrier. D66 will therefore
a maximum to the parental contribution. School
must be given the opportunity to raise funds in other ways.
Concerned parents Parents should be involved
be in the education of their children. And if
school may this commitment to school and learn
expect. In practice this is sometimes unnecessary

D66 election for the House of 2012/2017

tricky. D66 therefore wants to improve the support for the councils and children next
compulsory education also give a right to education. Also, D66
submitted a private member which public education, the ability to form association
to assume that schools parents can more
involve.
Sex education compulsory The deployment
D66 schools should be compulsory education
surrender (gay) sexuality. Thus, the sexual
independence and acceptance of sexual diversity
increased among young people.
More customization in secondary education
Just like in elementary school must also students
in secondary education can focus on
their qualities. D66 wants to introduce certificates
by subject, so that a pupil in secondary education exam can do in a box on a higher level and easier to move. Stacking also
and flow in secondary education must
be more easily. Due to demands on the
schools around maximum stay is now
unnecessarily burdensome. D66 also wants more attention for overachievers. They must be given opportunities for deepening, for example, with a specialization that matches
with their talent.
Space for special education in primary
Education is much concern about the changes to the
Under appropriate education. D66 has successfully
the cuts reversed at the appropriate education. D66 wants to be taken to ensure that there
for special education necessary expertise is lost. Some young people have now once
a special learning environment necessary to maximize
get off their talents. That may be some concerns on D66
VMBO and MBO, but also HAVO and VWO
level.
An accessible system for student
D66 wants to Higher Education for all that is right, is also accessible. At the same time must
quality of higher education improved and more talent to be encouraged. D66 wants the basic grant is replaced by a loan system and the
freed up funds to invest in improving the
quality education. To access to
D66 wants to maintain the repayment period of the
Loan extend to twenty years, so that graduates less every month have to pay back.
For old students who can not repay the loan, the loan is forgiven after this time. D66 students who need a
multi-do master, for example in science studies,
not to pay these extra years. D66 wants ambitious students for the statutory tuition next
their study can follow a second study. With
entering the loan system wants the D66
nonsensical long study fine abolished as soon as possible. If the loan system unexpectedly negative
effects on the accessibility of higher
24

Education is for students with disadvantaged background, D66 will take targeted repair measures. Students who are younger than 17 and
want to participate in higher education, including gifted, come D66 also eligible for
financial support.
Employment opportunities through a life
Only long learning overstay their lives
learning, keep people employment opportunities.
Our education system must then be furnished and must
Young people are already here now aware of. D66 wants
dependent compulsory education for people
no work and have no basic qualifications.
D66 of workers must follow a recognized part-time training of graduate to undergraduate and master regardless of their age. This requires a good and flexible
offer evening and weekend classes, it better
meet the demand of workers and adults.
To promote lifelong learning makes D66
the loan system for bachelor and master degree programs accessible to people older than 27
years.
D66 wants all employers training arrangements
include in their employment contracts. It is a
important principle that the employee has control over the training to follow.
Training Vouchers for older workers
The labor market for older workers is locked,
55+ have great difficulty in finding the
a job. D66 wants to introduce education vouchers
for people over 55 for more than six months unemployed
are. They may use these vouchers for schooling
or assistance with job applications.

Excellent vocational training, higher education
and Research
There is much talk about "excellence" in education, but many hands and feet do not get the wish.
D66 wants the years to chart a clear course
to educational excellence. Not only in science and research, but also in the
vocational education.
Without good professionals we build a knowledge economy and there will be no new growth. Some
people excel with their heads, others with just
their hands. D66 wants VET -
VMBO, MBO and HBO - again a full-fledged pillar
in addition to academic education. Connect the vocational and professional research at
what our labor market needs.
Also, science and research are crucial for
our economic growth and welfare. In college, students are taught to think critically and consider. Of these benefits the entire
society. At our universities accessible

Education

We offer comprehensive training, we promote depth
and excellence and we have to through a base of world investment in basic
research.
Increase quality MBO D66 wants quality
Enhancing vocational education. D66 advocates
for a limited number of recognizable and broad disciplines in the MBO. These provide good access to vocational schools and at high school, so
study easier. After a broad start in
the first year any direction different specializations. These specializations must match
a profession and training for the labor market, in
numbers of students.
A lower limit occurs at the number of pupils
fragmentation of programs. Where necessary,
small study bundled into one program.
Small unique, specialized courses where there
a clear demand from the labor market,
get a separate position.
D66 is the MBO primarily vocational education. Professional knowledge and skills are
therefore paramount. D66 wants more cooperation with business community to the distance to trade and labor market
to limit. Requirements in terms of general subjects (such as mathematics and language) may D66
not at the expense of the vocational subjects.
When moving on to HBO for D66 one of the
specializations are additional requirements in the areas of language, mathematics and English made. Professionals
can in our plans after MBO further
specialize with an Associate Degree. D66 advocates
ensure that professional groups their excellent professionals 'master' may call.
VMBO must better prepare for MBO
D66 supports initiatives which VMBO and MBO
better aligned. By reform in the
MBO is the number of examination guidelines in the VMBO
down, each test direction connecting bright
on one of the MBO-directions. Thus Vmbo Pupils easily through to MBO.
This reduces the risk of dropping out. Pupils
underperformance may D66 a year
longer continue to be trained in problem subjects. VMBO students can study their
longer. D66 schools should pay more attention to individual guidance in the
transition to MBO.
One area for international graduate education
D66 wants MBO students across Europe better
to turn. As future employees become stronger in an increasingly international world.
D66 wants to stimulate international internships in the MBO, and encourage entrepreneurship across the border. This is important for the export power of
SMEs.
More quality college and university quality
higher education needs across the board
up. D66 wants the recommendations of the commis25

sie perform Veerman. Universities will issue
a strong focus on basic research.
Colleges herein largely a regional educational function, provide targeted professional
masters and to do practical research,
require cooperation with the business community
wanted.
D66 wants to choose all the settings for a
sharper profile and make an appointment with the
government. Funding is attached to it,
without perverse incentives. D66 thereby wants more differentiation in the offer, such as classes for overachievers and reduced routes.
HBO is to D66 the top of vocational education, and implemented a full, but
another, be an alternative to the university. A
attractive choice for VWO students who want to excel in a profession. D66 advocates in higher education for clustering to wide
Bachelor's programs, which are more graduate specializations and different graduation levels
offered.

Quality Ahead of average OECD running back
(afwijwijking percentage of OECD average, OECD, 2009)

OECD score Reading
2003: 3.85%
2009: 2.83%

OECD score Math
2003: 7.60%
2009: 6.05%

OECD score Natuurwetenschap
2003: 4.80%
2009: 4.19%

Abolishing the training intake restriction
Admission to Universities D66 wants the
government is no longer trying influx into certain
limiting rely on a national level.
Individual courses may still decide
maintain a settings enrollment quota to ensure quality. With specific courses such as
PABO makes D66 selection at the gate, on for
the professionally relevant dimensions as possible.
More collaboration education, research
D66 wants and business cooperation
training, research institutes and companies
strengthen, to make better use of existing knowledge, to do more applied research and accelerate knowledge development (open innovation). This
can for HBO through HIT / knowledge centers and in the
science education at designated national campuses via Tech Transfer Offices / Portals.
Excellent basic research D66 wants
more money for basic research. It is time
that the Dutch government is investing in science again. Here there will be enough space for social sciences and humanities disciplines are. Also in fundamentally
research aims D66 room for cooperation with
the businesslife. D66 election for the House of 2012/2017
Better opportunities and rewards for talented researchers and teachers D66 wants for young researchers a better balance between education and
doing research and have published.
At the same time also an excellent teacher in
college career make. D66 wants to
term extension of WO masters for two years,
more research jobs and introducing a
Professional Doctorate for workers.
Education that works
On education, we are never spoken. D66
is concerned about the decline in quality,
increasing bureaucracy and counterproductive
incentives. Without teachers, pupils and their parents
saddled with yet another major reform, wants D66
targeted measures to address these concerns
to come and improve education. Are thereby
four focus areas: how we fund schools, how we focus on quality, how we control
it focuses on and finally how we organize
relationship between schools and the government.
Funding directed to lesson Money for Education
must first accrue to a lesson
competent teacher. Cost Management and housing must be controlled and to be reduced significantly in some cases. In the MBO, HBO
and WO D66 wants less money on overhead
is spent. Also in the primary, secondary and university education should be sent to
proper spending of money. If a program does not
meets a good balance between education and
overhead, the school has to justify this. D66
wants the quality and extent of deprivation are relevant for the distribution of funds. Merger Incentives
be abolished.
Not too small schools Schools should not
large, but also not be too small. Primary schools with
few students often have lower education, while the cost per pupil is three times higher than the average school. The current
funding system makes it unattractive for small schools to merge, because they go there
out financially. That must change. D66 choose
also in shrinking areas for quality. This should
elementary schools, in consultation with residents, collaborate
and concentration, the teaching, for example, and with
arrange school transportation. It should also fusion between public and private schools possible
are. D66 takes care of everything so well in the Netherlands
basic education.
Focus on quality Quality of education is for
D66 much more important than the size of a school.
Therefore D66 wants any financial incentives for large
schools, but for demonstrated quality. HBO
WO settings are distinguished by
higher education and lower student wants D66 above example, additional reward.
26
Quality keys D66 is in favor of tracking the performance of pupils in the various stages of their school career. Also, in the
Continued education should be possible mid-term review as a central arithmetic test in VMBO,
HAVO and VWO. This allows schools and students
ability to make timely adjustments and possible
flow to enable a higher level of education.
Better education in a better school D66 wants to renovate for a good indoor outdated schools or rebuild. Municipalities
D66 need of the money intended for housing under spend just this purpose.
Test and inspection: central D66 wants quality schools in the primary, secondary and
professional recording quality standards
and increase. Failing schools will often assessed, discussed and are accompanied by a strengthened school inspection. Very weak
elementary schools are unacceptable. This should be within
one year have improved significantly. To avoid closure D66 wants a weak school in receivership
states. For other courses, such as in
Secondary Education, MBO, HBO and WO,
D66 wants similar requirements. If such a program after
a year has not improved, they must accept new students.
A stronger Inspectorate of Education and insight
for parents in a quality inspector for
D66 also a teaching professional. D66 wants a
inspection, which oversees the school and decides, without getting bogged down in micro and reports
rating per spreadsheet. A conscious
To make possible the choice of school must
Education Inspectorate make the performance of schools transparent and comparable online known, at municipal level.
Simplify the relationship between schools and the government, the world of education is difficult organized. With many semi-government institutions,
associations and umbrella. And a ministry that its expertise has outsourced part of this
institutes. According to D66 can be simpler. And will be a
Such simplification lead to more freedom and
less red tape and reports for schools and
institutions. A direct relationship between education
and municipal, regional and central government will also increase
flexibility and faster tuning on (local)
needs and issues. D66 wants to clear agreements on quality between government and educational institution which then oversees the inspection.
This allows the number of semi-governmental institutions and the associated costs are reduced. Education
27 D66 Election for the House of 2012/2017
Health
28 Health
> • Make close, patient-centered
>? Mental health
>? Personal responsibility,
control and prevent demand
to care
>? Quality in the curative care
Healthy living and healthy aging is a great thing. Previously
we have set up health care together in the Netherlands. A
individual, only the risk of ill health can not wear, therefore
We believe in solidarity and mutual care. The challenge for the
future is how our health care accessible and well
affordable. So that people who really need care, always on
be able to count to the appropriate treatment or support.
The costs of care are rapidly making number two already Netherlands now worldwide in healthcare expenditure. If we do not give a
average family about thirty years almost 40% of its income on
care. Partly because we are getting older, partly by
increasingly expensive medical solutions. But costs are also rising fast
by the way we have organized care and how we
pay her.
29 D66 Election for the House of 2012/2017
>
Each one of us pays only a small portion of their own healthcare costs through
own payment and insurance premium. The majority is applied
by employers and through taxes. The care demands as an increasing proportion
of our collective resources. These are not limitless and without
Measures will care spending at the expense of education, police or
with social security. Then comes at a given moment
accessibility and quality of care for everyone really in danger.
In the coming years will transform healthcare through increased
and more focused on helping people with long-term
disorders or old-age failures, instead of curing
diseases. It is then imperative that we take action now to
make good, accessible and also affordable. We will now
beginning to make a number of changes. D66 wants to gradually
from institutional care towards more care in the neighborhood. From cure to
occur. Of patients undergoing passive to self-reliant
Patients with personal responsibility. From work with seemingly
infinite resources to reduce waste.
D66 sees these changes opportunities. Opportunities for more self-determination,
on more experienced health, a greater say and more
interrelatedness and human dimension.
Care in the neighborhood,
patient-centered
The most trusted care, the care close.
GPs, pharmacists, nursing, but also
home care and regional health centers are the first
line of our health care system. This involved care professionals, handling, coaching, refer
by and teach patients living with defects. They make it possible for us, as long as we can and
wish, healthy and independent lives.
Care close D66 wants the basic care as close
may be organized in humans. D66 advocates
30
Therefore new forms of healthcare
in between the first and second line. These are so-called "half line settings" where more specialist care closer to the present and so
unnecessary and expensive hospital visits are avoided. Here there is room for the treatment of chronically ill, and his clinics
service centers where people can ask questions about welfare, living and aging up. D66 wants
invest in community nurses. In the district they are the central point of contact for patients.
General practitioners are the gateway to care
General practitioners play a crucial role in finding
good specialist care and prevention and Health
avoiding unnecessary care issues. D66 wants the
improve accessibility of GP by
To ensure flexible opening hours. GPs
now especially rewarded by treatment. This excludes
not in line with the said expectations. Therefore wants
D66 that pay family doctors more focused
on promoting health and
prevention care. D66 also wants more practice nurses (POHS) playing an important role
play by prolonged and complex multiple care.
The GP diagnoses. The POH inventories,
organizes, directs and provides lifestyle advice. By
collaboration between GPs and wellbeing in the district
The concern is further improved. D66 wants to allow more innovation in primary care, including through
entry of new providers through integrated
care products and experimentation with equal rates
regardless of the provider.
Information about quality D66 wants patients
in a simple way independent information
can get over the care outcomes,
quality and cost of care. We therefore encourage choice online platforms and e-health and
Mobile-health '.
What we pay per household to care
(part average income for care, per household, percentage
of total modal
income)
2010
23.5%
Active pharmacist D66 finds that the pharmacist must work better together with GPs and medical
specialists to safety and adherence to
Increase and wastage of drugs against
go. It is D66 for a take-back obligation
given too much medicine to pharmacies. On the basis of developed by the profession of doctors
23.5%
guidelines, use of generic drugs is encouraged.
Cooperate in long-term care in long-term care D66 wants more cooperation between different health care providers. In addition, D66 wants the
cooperating parties as general practitioners, specialists
and nurses work together for the best
mix of quality of care provided and the use of
scarce resources. Rewarding per treatment
Individual providers can this barrier
forms. D66 wants care networks in which professionals decide who gets what care and how
they can do so as cheaply as possible. D66 wants
experiment with care financing where the health of the patient-centered and this is the basis
of remuneration represents for collaborative care providers in an area or region. Furthermore, there can be further experimented with care budgets per
resident of a region over which a regional health care provider or a health care provider directs. We
close to this in ongoing experiments
Netherlands and Germany, for example.
Personal budget D66 supports further development of the individual control
the choice of care and caregivers and makes
therefore strongly for a future-proof personal budget. The required assessment must take place on a functional basis.
Fraud will be vigorously punished. Thus strengthened the D66
position of the patient and encourages innovation and
cost solutions within the EMEA. In the
Budget Agreement are not put steps. D66
finds that the personal budget should also be available for those with only guidance.
31
2040
36%
New perspective on elderly care, home care
and EMEA Elders want as long as possible at home
continue living. D66 wants to encourage people so
long as possible to receive care outside of an institution and can remain independent. With the help of
family, neighbors and others you can. Qualitative
Good home care helps where more expert
help is needed, or care can not be sufficiently available. The majority of long-term care is covered
The Exceptional Medical Expenses Act. She is
originally founded to provide care in case of
uninsurable major risks. However, the AWBZ
has grown into an arrangement that also predictable,
non-medical costs for a fast-growing group
reimburse people. Partly as a result of increased
aging are rising AWBZ expenditures
one of the main threats to the financial manageability of care. In the Netherlands, we give approximately 3.5% of our gross national product from
this concern. The average for the rich countries
(OECD) is just 1.5%. This is also because
Netherlands has relatively many elderly living in nursing homes. In our perspective on the elderly is up
based on its own strength. D66 wants people
are stimulated first in their own familiar
environment for possible solutions looking for
go. Volunteers are deployed and only then can
be relied on public services. For people for whom this is not enough, there are
individual facilities. D66 wants to let be a shift from individual voorzienin- D66 Election for the House of 2012/2017
gen direction own strength: Volunteers in combination
with collective facilities. When we combine this with better coordination between care, welfare
and demand, we get better and more affordable
Services.
EMEA reform D66 wants to keep crucial AWBZvoorziening affordable by returning to
bring to the core. D66 wants to make a distinction
between housing, care and service. The treatment is covered. Live service and not from the collective
AWBZ-funded budget paid, but like
in other stages of life on their own account. This
also encourages people to continue living at home, contributing to their happiness and health. In
the implementation, we want to make municipalities responsible for counseling, care and nursing home. For nursing care that is not
more can be done at home, health insurers are responsible.
Saving for care These adjustments in the
AWBZ care and service for the elderly will spend more of their accumulated assets need to
speak. D66 looks assets in retirement or home
and care more and more like communicating vessels.
It should be ensured that the financing instruments such as reverse mortgages and care savings are available. Who a time no care needs, saves
for the time that it does.
Simpler AWBZ indications D66 takes the needs assessment in the EMEA too bureaucratic. Like
The case argues in the Health Insurance D66 there
Therefore, the claims in the EMEA and
AWBZ policy to make it so specific it
Care Assessment Centre will be redundant.
Quality Municipalities must select providers on both price and quality. D66 wants
that every municipality prepares explicit quality criteria in procuring care contracts.
Carers and volunteers spared With care and voluntary work you invest in social
cohesion and cost savings in health care. D66 encourages ways to ease the burden on carers and volunteers. For example by
the use of case managers as well embraces
the Delta Plan dementia.
Nuisance addicts must avoid nuisance
be addressed in the core. D66 is in favor
of creating user premises and the medical providing hard drugs within a drug rehabilitation program. The medical providing drugs
also high crime. Effective coordination with local residents about the location can nuisance
be effectively avoided, as experience has shown.
To provide adequate reception in conjunction with medical and psychological care and addressing
the underlying multiple care needs, is
the environment safer, the improving outlook for
32

addicts and prevent secondary health problems.
Jeugdzorg D66 feels that education is the responsibility of parents. If problems arise
that can not be solved by the educators,
must have professional help available, starting with a school doctor. If it is necessary for
the child, this help can be imposed mandatory.
Since 2015, municipalities are responsible for
youth. D66 supports this transition, because professional help prevention and as close as possible to the
child must be organized. We insist on
quality and clarity. It must be crystal clear
what paperwork a child welfare worker must have and what quality must meet the aid. They know customers and communities where they
are increasing.

Mental health
A good and accessible mental health is essential. However, spending on mental health add up fast. D66 wants two lines
follow in order to ensure quality and accessibility and at the same time to control the costs: limiting unnecessary demand and increasing the
efficiency in the operation of that question. Care is
in the right place, by the right person, practical
and given in good cohesion. The basic principle is that health care is organized around the patient
and not the patient around the care. As close as possible to
housing, with adequate navigation of patients to the
proper care, a strong general function, good
generalist and specialist mental health services base
Mental health care. The emphasis is on strengthening the
own management and self-management of the patient.
Budget Agreement as a first step in the
Budget Agreement D66 has its own contribution in the
MHC restricted. It is also a fact that one million Dutch symptoms of a depressive nature
has and receives the corresponding next treatment and medication. Depression often has to do with coping with adversity, feelings of exclusion and
powerlessness. Education and training, coaching and
help in multiple health care problems through care and
wellbeing solutions that supports D66. Medicalisation of a breakdown is to be avoided. Just as we must avoid the
mental health is abused as
afterthought of a failing security chain
Effective mental health starts with healthy demand limitation begins with spiritual
health, for which the base is located outside the health sector: education, participation, exercise, and education and prevention. When
people have mental health will arrive D66 sent to shorter recordings, faster guidance and effective care.
Preferably ambulatory. Expert practitioners spe-

Health

s also a gatekeeper here. Involuntary
applies to D66 as a last resort. The trend of outpatient treatment may be associated with the phasing out of the range of the number
beds.

rate. Health insurers are encouraged
to invest in prevention.

Fewer workers, more elderly people
(number of working Dutch per retiree)

Healthy incentives Financing GGZstelsel should be brought in line with this approach. D66 finds it necessary to perverse
incentives around payment for hospital care and investment in e-Health are removed. In
confluence with the introduction of the personal contribution
in the other care, will also be in the mental health care a contribution result in mild disorders
demand management.

Own responsibility,
control and prevent
demand for care
A sustainable health care system begins with prevention
unnecessary demand for health care. A healthy lifestyle
and prevent avoidable health care needs
are important starting points. Will also
people have to consciously decide on whether
do not seek professional care.
Cost Consciousness With own contributions
people become more aware of the costs of care.
This leads patients to greater individual responsibility and greater insight into choices. D66 has therefore decided to increase
of the excess with a compensation for the
low incomes. Improper use of the Rush
Claiming Relief and Huisartsenpost be charged
placed in the patient. D66 also wants hospitals and general practitioners use a wegblijftarief, when patients do not come to their appointment. It is
necessary that the accounts of their patients
see care use (and check). Where possible,
are costs of treatment for patients made visible prior to treatment.
Care which is not necessary, do not need in the
D66 wants basic expenditure foreseen
and affordable, as the walker, be removed from the basic package. Preconception care (inter alia to the pill
21 years and preconception), treatment of
(secondary) sexual characteristics and transgender
medicinal cannabis continue to form part of the basic package.
Reward healthy behaviors, avoid unhealthy
behavior D66 supports financial incentives for healthy behavior in the Health Insurance Act. D66 wants
previously deleted from the basic dietary advice and 'stop-smoking programs' in there again
be included. D66 wants standards for the percentage of salt in food and measures
excessive consumption of fat, sugar and salt back
to penetrate, for example through the choice of the VAT
33

1960

2012

2040

Discourage smoking D66 supports a
tobacco control. The smoking ban
be strictly enforced. The derogation for small cafés is a wrong signal
D66 wants to turn back. In case of insufficient decline
smoking among youth are horrifying pictures on packages and limiting the number of
sale possible next steps for D66.
In the Budget Agreement has been an increase in the
excise recorded.
Education inhibits alcohol and drugs D66 wants good information about alcohol and drug use for
young people and their parents and teachers. D66 wants stricter monitoring the enforcement of age limits
for sale of alcohol and drugs to children under 16 years.
Restrict advertising D66 wants advertising guidelines
medicines are much more strictly enforced. Self-regulation is therefore inadequate.
Sport at school and in the neighborhood sport contributes greatly
to health, for all ages. The following applies
'Learned young is done old ". PE class is therefore
D66 an important part of education. D66 wants to sport as part of the Teacher Training College Training and primary schools the quality and
some gym classes screwing. Accessible local
sports and sports are essential to make people move.
Top sports events and talents Dutch
athletes inspire people to get some exercise. D66 wants talents the chance to excel
and offer good facilities. Thresholds - such as the
langstudeerder fine - D66 takes away. D66 is also in favor of organizing top sporting events in Netherlands

D66 election for the House of 2012/2017

Quality in the curative care
In the 'healing' or curative health care insurers and hospitals play a central
role. Six years ago the world was thoroughly shaken by the introduction of a new health care system.
D66 see these reforms their desired effect
begin to get. This creates more insight into quality, more discussion about costs and more guidance on
cost consciousness. Due to increased patient choice is more central to stand out.
D66 wants to progress on the path, with some
targeted adjustments. Going back to the health care system in the last century, with waiting lists, budgets
and low incidence of patients would be a big step
mean backwards and care again for a
some years paralyzed.
More and better quality information, the hospital in the Netherlands would benefit from greater insight into
quality. This will lead to an increase in average quality and, as has been shown in Sweden for instance, a damping effect on
costs. D66 wants all care organizations that
are engaged in quality and transparency,
coordinated by a single authoritative quality institute. This institute must ensure that patients, care providers and insurers quality
and care standards to formulate and implement. The minister will receive more funds to D66
to enforce. This is also important in order to show the competition of concern such a way that can
be redeemed on quality. D66 wants doctors,
in consultation with patients, the quality information
use and more responsibility
for maximum quality and optimum use of available resources. The doctor is in this leading.
Hospitals still wants to achieve a better D66
hospital landscape that offers the right balance between specialization, concentration and good wide concern in the region. For elective, one-off measures lead
specialization and concentration to better care. For
chronic and basic care is embedded in regional or district
particularly important. The change leads to increasing
quality without access is jeopardized.
The transition process requires collaboration and consultation
between hospitals and health insurers. The
Minister shall, together with the Health Insurers
directing this process. D66 wants to avoid supervision
on the basis of an unnecessary competition
blockade forms.
Medical specialists are medical specialists
with nurses the backbone of good curative care. By reducing barriers in the education and the abolition of the fixed quota
for the study of medicine, allowing selection, there will be a greater hiring and promotion of basic medical practitioners and medical specialists. Specialists have
now often organized in health partnerships, this must not constitute barriers to collaboration between disciplines within hospitals or
34

for the necessary redeployment of the hospital landscape. D66 supports adjusting excessive fees of specialists.
More specialized nurses
D66 feels that more nurses and medical
organizational tasks can take over. There must be
more specialist nurses and nurse specialists are trained and deployed. That
leads to greater satisfaction among patients, improved
quality of care and lower costs and also increases
the career of nurses.
D66 also wants a better distinction between the professional profile of the caregiver and the
nurse.
Infant mortality Reducing the mortality rate
babies during or shortly after birth in Netherlands
too high. D66 wants the recommendation standards
Steering Pregnancy and Birth unabridged
Entering. Concentration of acute complex obstetric care should be encouraged as it
introduction of which makes it possible standards.
Competition leads Under the right conditions
competition in healthcare to more quality and control of prices and volumes. D66 is to expand competition where these
terms of choice, transparency and
accountability are met. D66 supports the current policy of increasing the space for free
prices up + 70%, phase out ex-post risk insurers and allowing distribution of profits by providers. This policy deserves
continuing to stimulate (selective) purchase of care on quality and efficiency permanently.
Allow private capital D66 wants an additional source of funding for health care by private capital to allow in care. This allows
incentives for quality improvement and increased operational efficiency and increase the
easier to invest in care innovations. D66
it proposes the following conditions: only long
term investors, strict and responsible performance standard.
Innovation in healthcare innovation helps quality
and increase control costs and also provides a
economic opportunity. When people often think of innovation
new drugs, devices and biomedical
developments. D66 also wants to focus on process innovation. Especially in the light of increasing
shortage of personnel is necessary to improve care processes. New entrants may be an important source of innovation as D66.
Provide Consumers and their representatives should be closely involved in this innovation. D66
wants the college entrance new drugs also
evaluates new tools. Admission Testing
may, especially for life-saving resources, constitute a delaying factor.

Health

Improve oversight D66 will monitor the
health improve drastically. We advocate
to improve the Inspectorate
Health care and increasing the number
inspectors. This should not lead to unnecessary
bureaucratization and reporting drift. Inspectors
are professionals with judgment in dialogue with institutions.
Patient organizations carry powerful Patient organizations to self-awareness and autonomy
patients and service users. D66 wants the patient movement continues concentrating its
forces and is paid from health insurance premiums.
EHR under
Conditions With the Electronic Patient
Dossier (EPD) is fast and good care
simpler and medical errors can be
occur. Of course, the patient decides about
Participation in the SPD and the patient remains owner
of his own medical information. D66 supports
development of the SPD, subject to the privacy and permission for inspection by the patient are fully guaranteed.
Health insurers take their role health insurers are responsible for good, patient-focused and affordable care for all their policyholders.
D66 wants the Health Insurance Act (Zvw)
but do want to make some improvements.
D66 wants it more based on good care results.
That makes health insurance more discerning about the quality of care and promotes a long-term relationship with
insured. Health insurers should be given more space in healthcare procurement for experiments
defining "performance". The government now proposes
prescribe in detail what a care product (a 'performance')
has to be. Insurers, health care providers and patients currently have limited freedom here together to specify interpretation. This inhibits innovation.

35

D66 election for the House of 2012/2017

Direction Pointers
D66

In this election you will find concrete
solutions for issues that arise now.
But the daily practice of parliamentary work is much more varied than we can now predict. There are undoubtedly
problems upon which is limited in the program
or even not at all be discussed.
Therefore, we have our principles and
ideas translated into five 'signposts'. When in doubt, an elected representative it will
signposts let outweigh the
solutions in the writing of this program were logical and defensible,
but not much later by the facts though again
obsolete.

36

Pointers direction D66

We rely on our own strength and development
of people. Therefore, we look to the future with optimism. People are so creative that they
repeatedly find solutions. We want
which gives the government the power, ingenuity and creativity of people supporting and space. The
key to change lies in people themselves and we
want the government to connect with it. What people
for themselves and others can do is much more important and effective than what the government can do.

Strive for a sustainable and harmonious society we want the world around us step forward with respect and compassion. That counts for
the people around us and for our environment.
The earth is not ours and therefore no commodity.
We want to stop the depletion and pollution
of our environment. We want the debate
about nature and the environment is not the damage, but it
conservation of nature and environment is warranted.

Societies are becoming more different
ways associated with each other. We are open
for the whole world and none excluded.
In everything we do, we ask ourselves still wondering what
effects it has on others in this world. We
recognize that Europe is increasingly our inland
becomes. International cooperation and economic
progress are the keys to a world with
less war and conflict. In addition, we act
increasingly pragmatic, sober and based on facts.

The fundamental values ​​of our society
its freedom and equality for all
man, regardless of beliefs, religion, sexual orientation, orientation or origin. Central values
For us his bodily integrity, non-violent
resolving conflicts and respectful
used freedom of opinion and expression,
including respect for our constitutional democracy. These values ​​are universal and no more
above suitable. We will protect the fundamental rights
of ourselves and others.

People are not equal, indeed equivalent. People
are different and we want the government leaves room for those differences. We strive for economic independence for many people and found that people who achieve excellence
for that earn a reward. We want a
dynamic, open society in which everyone
space gets to make his own decisions and
anyone can develop in its own way.
We find it natural to prosperity
to share together. We want as many people to participate in social and economic
process, because we all benefit from.
For people who can not save themselves-self
we have a joint responsibility.

37

D66 election for the House of 2012/2017

Space

38

Space

>? Nature
>? Sustainable Agriculture and Fisheries
>? Living
>? Public Transport and Mobility

Space in the Netherlands is not obvious. Our country is one of
the most densely populated in the world. Space in the Netherlands by
definition scarce. At the same time everybody - now and in the future -
need space. Space for ourselves to live, space for our
children to play, space to build and remodel space
to grow our economy and space to nature its course
to let go.

39

D66 election for the House of 2012/2017

The tension between space as an essential condition to live and
and space to grow as demands for scarce sharp and durable
political choices in terms of spatial planning. D66 choose
for space for everyone, not only for those who possess it now.
We want to make better use of the available space by this durable
convertible and use. In practice this means reaching
reform of the housing market, making the most of
developments such as shrinking population, "sustainable investment
in nature, agriculture, fisheries and boosting fuel economy and driving
the use of public transport.
Nature
A nice, clean environment and flourishing nature
are important for the Netherlands. They contribute to
our health and therefore our quality of life.
The Netherlands has beautiful nature that we cherish for our posterity. A beautiful living environment
also provides space for recreation, causes by tourism
an economic impulse and increases the value of the built environment.
It is a big challenge for 17 million people
in a small country, the public green space, beautiful and
to maintain quality of life. In our densely populated country fight
agriculture, nature, water and the built environment
for space. As a result, they are all under pressure
stand. But nothing is impossible, with good control, we can best utilize public space.
D66 seeks a new balance, based on
Compact green cities and smart use of the
space both above and below ground. We strive
to the Netherlands as the most beautiful metropolis of Europe,
with a green center and a modern, sustainable agriculture. So we create literally and figuratively
more breathing space for everyone who works here,
living or staying for other reasons. That creates
new opportunities for recreation, nature and
activity.
Nature restore D66 wants to preserve the existing natural beauty, strengthen and expand further. As one of the richest countries in the world
We must show that it is possible prosperous
being without nature and biodiversity beyond
crumble.
The National Ecological Network as a core
D66 is the perfection of the Ecological
Network - our national network of connected natural areas - essential for the maintenance of
40
our natural beauty. With this we contribute
to European biodiversity (NATURA
2000). D66 is less likely at less money, not
with less ambition.
Investing in nature Large natural areas with good cohesion, such as the Veluwe or
banks of the great rivers are stronger than small
fens or tufts of heather. D66 therefore chooses
Investing in natural areas that take a beating
can, for example, our unique deltas. These investments contribute to the creation of space
for entrepreneurs and recreation and increase flood protection in the Netherlands. D66 wants to challenge with public money people and businesses in the region
to come up with inspiring projects that
we need to manage our space and use.
Possibly supported by experts from the
government. D66 works not only to nature restoration and protection of land in the Netherlands. In, with and outside
Europe is also provided for protection
nature at sea and on land outside important areas
Netherlands. Including through the establishment and protection of marine reserves and targeted protection
of plant and animal species. D66 wants the Netherlands
for this purpose takes the lead in relation to the
North Sea.
Sustained and adequate nature legislation
D66 wants a stronger natural landscape which also values ​​such as silence, vastness, protecting pristine and darkness. To this end, a private member D66
(Beautiful Netherlands) lodged. We also want to
the preservation of the nature and the accessibility capture and preserve through the new
Environment Act. National buffer zones and areas
potential to be included in the coherent network of nature be so in
recorded a structural and protected. What
will soon be necessary for the nature, is now stored. Space
Space for water Our climate is changing. Violent
rainfall, higher sea levels or even lower supply
of the Rhine present us with a new challenge:
a higher degree of flexibility is needed to us
protect against both too much water and too little against periods with (fresh) water. This requires up to 2050
major investments, a national approach and local
knowledge.
Investing in modern water management in order to circulate the water in the space and in a smart way
focus we need to feed the Delta Fund. Thereby
D66 wants to share benefits with nature projects
use as much as possible, for example by the construction of climate buffers. When making investment decisions in dikes or alternatives is
nieuwe'risico approach 'required. Will often result
be chosen for investment, for example nature reserves such as water storage because it is often more profitable. The water boards are put into the
intermediate levels.
Provide clean water Clean water is essential for people and nature. Therefore wants the D66
European agreements for clean water again give priority in Dutch environmental policy. D66
wants to invest in water quality and tune policies
with neighboring countries. Even when it comes to water wish
we believe that the polluter pays. This requires an efficient and transparent water cycle: pay per liter of water. No fixed or hidden costs more, but all
costs in the price per liter.
Director of planning, it is necessary to cluttering and prevent clogging of the landscape. In a busy and crowded country
Netherlands, is essential to control the space. Reich
and intermediate levels here have a leading role,
the government first.
Sustainable agriculture
and Fisheries
The Netherlands has a long history in agriculture and
taking a leading position in the world. D66 cherishes the leading role. We want farms have a future. By itself
specializing in sustainable and animal-friendly products, lower social costs to the environment and human health. Farmers must
focus on quality and innovation.
Entrepreneurship Farmers are entrepreneurs
should stand on their own feet. However, where farmers
take special measures to protect nature by injecting less poison or replace barbed wire through a wooded bank, they can
therefore be rewarded by the government. For
extent that agricultural subsidies should be provided
these are aimed at stimulating innovation,
reducing the pressure of the agricultural sector on
environment and water and nature and reward frontrunners.
41
Safe and decent livestock In the belief that a decent and civilized society
safe handling animals D66 wants to improve stables that animals have more space for course
behavior and unnecessary use of antibiotics and animal testing be curtailed further. New stalls or
major expansion may be realized only if they meet requirements for public health,
animal welfare and the environment. Large stables
higher demands.
Responsible consumers Consumers should
can simply deliberately choose animal-friendly meat, eggs and dairy. D66 supports the initiative
to label products with the friendly
hallmark of the Animals. Durable products certified as FSC timber and
MSC fish should be offered spacious and on
term perspective, consumption norm.
Sustainable fisheries D66 looks with envy that
The seas and oceans are rapidly increasing their natural
wealth losses due to overfishing and unsustainable fishing practices. This is dramatic for nature,
but also for fishermen. D66 wants a sustainable fisheries sector, with strict quotas based on scientific knowledge about the amount of fish that can
be caught without threatening species
sustainable fishing methods. This requires a lot of
sustainable European fisheries policy, with more long
term sustainable management and more co-management
by government, fishermen, NGOs and academics.
D66 wants to use the same goals and principles
agreements on fishing outside European waters.
Taking action against animal cruelty It speaks
for that animal cruelty should be punished. Hunting is not a sport for D66, but a means
which is, if necessary, in a professional manner
deployed.
Live
For years, maintains the Dutch housing seated buyers and renters in place and leave it little room for starters. Important causes are the
mortgage interest and rent control. The first drives the price of housing - and mortgage debt - at the latter produces a barely
existing rental market. The economic crisis
in recent years has exacerbated the situation. Increasingly
people can not move on to a new
property, because they are the high cost of a new
Property not liable to, expect an insurmountable residual debt, their old house on
Pavers not lose or look up to endless waiting lists.
D66 since 2006 argues for breaking the
downward spiral through a far-reaching reform
of the housing market. With Budget Agreement
have put the first steps to repay the norm, D66 Election for the House of 2012/2017
the mortgage and the limited rental market
gradually broken up. D66 but wants to go further:
Netherlands slowly let converge
a housing with much less disruption. That
means tackling the mortgage interest, property transfer tax, the notional rental value, social housing and rent control. The
first steps have been put. Now we must continue
ahead so that we for years of peace, clarity and
bring security.
Welcome initiative socially
D66 society welcomes the cooperation of the
Tenants, Aedes, Vereniging Eigen Huis and some
brokers organizations in order to arrive at an integral
woonplan increasing. All players now recognize the need
is to reform the housing market.
Real Estate For The Budget Accord
thanks D66 finally the necessary movement in
the rules brought about the housing market. D66 wants the
mortgage interest deduction limit and so shaping it
having debt is no longer encouraged. D66 therefore assumes (annuity) repayment
of the mortgage in 30 years. For existing cases
we establish a transitional regime of five years for this change. Thus, the homeowners
time and financial room for new ones with their bank
make appointments and adhere to these new rules
to adjust. Furthermore D66 wants the preference of
reduce highest incomes. The rate at which income tax may be deducted gradually each year by 1% starting with
the top rate reduced to 30% in 2035. The notional rental value (a tax) in our
proposals completed and the transfer tax
is finally abolished, starting with starters. In our final image a home is tax net
as another power-treated (box 3). With this long-term clarity is ensured that the housing market is in motion.
Rental properties D66 is to launch the market for rental housing. To realize this, like
social housing as we appreciate that enjoyment and environment are more expressed in the price.
Skew Housing must be counteracted by people
high-income with respect to the social
rental rates make the choice to pay or move to a more market-based rent. D66 wants
that the housing allowance remains for those who really
need. We build this building on the
Budget Agreement.
Housing associations These organizations have to
to their core task: the construction and management of affordable social housing. D66 wants all activities related to it. Furthermore, the quality must
management and control up so that tragedies like
be prevented by Vestia. In making our plans
social housing a smaller part of the total
to letting. A portion of the housing stock is converted to privately owned homes.
42
Shrinkage as opportunity Population decline is in large
Netherlands parts of the new reality. A cover
in thinking is necessary: ​​to grow to use, build real need and pay for real value. Regarding means living
This smaller and more flexibly in the Randstad for
single households. For offices means
This stimulate addressing vacancy and reuse by modifying building codes. D66 chooses tailored to each region and between
municipalities. In shrinking areas will D66 special
focus on vital services like healthcare and education of sufficient quality for everyone
are accessible and remain. Instead of competing to attract or retain facilities,
Municipalities must work together to quality and
to ensure accessibility. Shrink provides opportunity
more space and new quality.
Encouraging recycling To encourage recycling and 'inbreiden rather than expand, "wants to D66
a levy on the use of open space, which
individuals and businesses are encouraged to
To improve their existing property. Aligning the building regulations for offices and
property simplifies the necessary
adjustment.
All new energy efficient promotes D66
sustainable and energy efficient construction and renovation. This occurs, among other by greening the building regulations and simplify
(re) use of empty buildings for other
functions by removing barriers
zoning.
Vacancy prevented In order to achieve that only
need to be built, D66 wants municipalities, but also rich and middle government better control
feeding and removing perverse incentives.
Public Transport and Mobility
Mobility is a vital necessity. Netherlands characterizes
by a dense network of cities, villages and
roads. The growing number of cars and driving
kilometers we reach the limits of our road network.
For a sustainable society is good and reliable public transport is a major requirement.
With travel times and traveling comfort that can compete
by car. Train, tram, light rail, bus and public transport bicycle
can provide an attractive together quickly,
RF and easily accessible transportation network. Good public transport is more than a
collection of lines, it is a system that - much more
now - must be viewed in context.
D66 wants to encourage use of public transport
encourage the use of public transport
offering more quality, more frequencies,
improved connectivity of rail, metro, tram, bus and
cycling, offering free internet on the train and Space
ensuring clean trains. D66 is the up
creation of 'metro-like' train
between the (large) cities and an extension of the
NS night network.
Interest traveler first At NS and with carriers
in urban and regional D66 wants the travelers relevance and reliability prominent
take place within the framework set by the government and
the financial incentives they give. D66 wants the
Public transport is accessible to everyone, including by providing access to equipment, stations and stops for the disabled.
We annoy us to the recurrent problems
rail. Better cooperation between ProRail and
users, especially NS, is necessary.
Border public transport D66 wants
which is also present good public transportation in border regions. Barriers that inhibit the development of cross-border public transport must
are removed.
Make way for the bike D66 wants to encourage bicycle use and bring people within reach of larger groups. Combinations with public transport
by D66 stimulated with P + R facilities in strategic locations. D66 wants the network of
improve cycle routes, including through
more parking facilities in city centers, railway stations, public facilities and businesses. D66 wants
improve road safety for cyclists
better design of bicycle paths and traffic flows. Vulnerable road users such as children
and elderly cyclists deserve special attention.
Encourage new working D66 encourages
trend started towards the 'new way of working. With
flexible hours, home working facilities use
new media, auto parts and peak period avoidance projects
congestion can be tackled. Here are located in the
special opportunities for officials and SMEs.
Car and road pricing for decades,
Clearly we have to deal differently with mobility in order to provide less congestion, better accessibility and less pollution. D66 wants people
pay for use, not for possession of a
auto. This can be through pricing of driving and by phasing out tax incentives for car use. In the
Budget Agreement are finally here agreements
created. D66 wants the policy adheres to these agreements and thus provide clarity to commuters. D66 does provide an additional
transitional arrangement especially public transport commuters spares.
In the longer term (2016) D66 wants a system
of kilometerbeprijzen, with clear safeguards
privacy and without disproportionate implementation costs and risks.
Improve existing roads D66 is the improvement of existing roads first choice, new roads
only be built if the real value
43
for the operation of networks yield.
Existing roads can be used more effectively, for example by intelligent traffic systems or the
separating through traffic and regional traffic.
Controlled growth in traffic also leads to limited
increase maintenance costs of the road network.
Good incorporation of new roads at a construction
necessary condition.
Environmentally friendly travel attractive D66 wants
differentiation in taxes for cars so clean
cars are promoted. The network of charging stations and battery exchange stations for electric cars will be greatly expanded to electric transportation a
to make real option
Biofuels Biofuels can, provided
durable, contribute significantly to the greening of our mobility. What D66 is concerned
in 2020, at least 50% of all biofuels produced from waste, algae and residue production. beside
must be 10% of the fuels in the transport sector
in a sustainable way are obtained. D66 election for the House of 2012/2017
Freedom
by
self-determination
44 Freedom through Self-Determination
>? Self-determination in
the healthcare
>? Protect Privacy
>? Digital protect freedoms
As a social-liberal party D66 seeks to maximize
freedom for the individual to shape his own life for
insight. Self-determination is our core value. We propose this
concept central to the realization that no man is an island. In a pressure-
land and a complex society like ours, we lose our freedoms
together quickly. Because of this freedom always brings responsibility
for the whole along with it. Freedom is guaranteed by
a government that allows citizens fairly late and at the same time free.
45 D66 Election for the House of 2012/2017
Our freedom is under pressure. Curiously, partly due
actions of parties that the word "freedom" even in their party name
was added. They nibble at our law and our
democracy. But also by violations of privacy and threatening
limitation of self-determination.
New technological developments affect the limits of freedom
and create the need for new assessments visible. In the medical
World leading progressive techniques to new choices and dilemmas. In the digital world by recording, storing
and matching process a new domain of transparency
enter. D66 finds it necessary that our perspective on freedom
and self-develop with this changing reality.
Self-determination
the healthcare
Advancing knowledge and technology in the health care offer new opportunities. That
does not mean that anything goes because it can.
Control of major medical choices
is located in the patient, which is a trade-off with the doctor
makes. As mentioned state self-determination for D66
central. The right information about healing opportunities
risks and treatment is essential.
Completed life Older people who come to the conclusion that their life is completed, should be able to self
how and when they want to die. D66
that dying aid under strict conditions
care and testability should be possible in that situation. Art. 294, paragraph 2 Code
Criminal law, assisted suicide and providing
of means to do so punishable, should D66
be adjusted. For newborns serious, unbearable and hopeless suffering among active euthanasia in consultation between parents and
neonatologists possible.
At home or in a hospice dying Many people
death in a hospital, while being more preferably in an
familiar environment would die. D66 wants
is informed by doctors more and better information on the
possibility of dying in a hospice.
Unnecessary barriers to die at home should be removed.
Entering reference D66 wants a euthanasia law
initiative legislative proposal to refer the law
for euthanasia to be laid down by law. Doctors
a euthanasia request from a patient does not wil46
s grant will be required to refer
to a colleague who shall deal with such a request.
Active donor registration system (ADR) D66 wants
inputting ADR. This is a system of organ donation in which everyone who after repeated calls
do not let register in the Donor Register is automatically registered as a donor. If an asset registered donor dies, doctors do not need
permission from the next of kin.
Survivors have no veto over the independent choice of their loved one, but of course be respectful question. In addition,
living kidney donation, the Netherlands, simpler
be. Furthermore D66 wants an end to the unequal
treatment of gay and bisexual men at
blood and organ donation.
The demand to prevent unnecessary operations
which treatment, such as surgery, a patient - especially in its final phase - still exposed
is becoming increasingly important. An operation is a Medical risk and not always in the best interest of the patient. D66 wants patients in their final stage of life
be well informed about the added value
an operation for them has yet. Conducting a
good conversation between doctor, patient and family about treatment should be the standard in these cases.
Freezing oocytes possible if proven safe
and effective, D66 sees no objection in principle to
it (at your own expense) freezing of oocytes on social grounds. This procedure must take place after
Careful prior information on the health risks of motherhood higher
age. D66 also wants to abolish the requirement that states that at

Freedom through Self-Determination

surrogacy the egg and sperm cells of the prospective parents themselves, so that gay couples equal rights
get.
Offer meaningful prenatal screening D66 wants
that meaningful prenatal screening is offered
and reimbursed for all pregnant women, even women under 35. The screening can be expanded
specific birth defects. D66 wants
pregnant women get routine ultrasonography (SEO) offered at 20 weeks.
Scientific research embryos under
Conditions For D66 scientific research with embryos under acceptable conditions,
For example, to serious genetic disorders.
D66 advocates abolishing the ban on it. Ten
respect of embryo selection D66 thinks people
with a child at risk of a serious
genetic disorder to pass on to their offspring the possibility, in dialogue with the
physician to determine if preimplantation genetic diagnosis (embryo selection) can be useful.
Abortion and curettage in concert
with physician If a woman gets pregnant unintentionally
she decided in consultation with the doctor or they her
pregnancy will continue or not. D66 is
the abolition of the statutory cooling for
abortion of five days. The 24-week limit on abortion
is maintained at D66. Good information is
important for a balanced decision. D66 does not see
Therefore, the time of treatment among abortion to
drop. D66 wants the accessibility of
improves medical abortion, e.g.
because the doctor can write for abortion.

Protect Privacy
Freedom begins with the right to personal privacy.
With increasing data acquisition, and advances in technology, the protection of privacy under pressure.
To protect the privacy of citizens, a number of measures are needed.
Accessible complaints Private parties who use personal information for commercial purposes must carry a simple
accessible complaints procedure set up. Same
applies to public organizations that use personal information for efficient operations.

Grail are part of systems. For public
Parties impact analysis is required. Private
parties may submit these analyzes and gain
this investment certainty about not violating privacy rules.
Not every store fingerprints
D66 wants no storage of fingerprints obtained for example when applying for
a new passport.
Not connect without authorization dossiers
D66 feels that different files may not be linked without the consent of individual citizens
be and that citizens must always have their own data
can understand: his personal property
the individual, not the government.
Strong European privacy legislation aims D66
for a sweeping modernization and strengthening
European laws for the protection of personal data. A uniform set of simple and
flexible rules for Europe is good for citizens
and businesses. These rules apply equally to public and for private users. D66 wants the
government cracks down hard against abuse and careless handling of personal data and post
clamp down on the data-grabbing by non-EU countries
in data all European citizens.
Privacy surveillance gets teeth D66 wants
Data Protection rename
to the Dutch Privacy Authority. With the mandate and resources to investigate complaints about invasion of privacy in treatment, to provide assistance to
Victims of imposing a breach of privacy and fines for violations
of the Data Protection Act. This
fines can be published. Appointment
the board goes through the House to ensure independence. D66 wants the
Data breaches hotline also under this authority
will fall.

Protect digital freedom

Litigation in group D66 wants citizens to sue as a group against unauthorized use of personal data.

Internet is very rapidly become a
increasingly important part of our daily lives. Which
further development will continue in the coming years. Now is the time to make essential choices about how we want our internet furnished
to safeguard our individual liberties.
In addition, the government in consultation with consumers and businesses should provide clarity about and limits on online safety and privacy.

Privacy impact assessments Projects involving the storage of personal information is involved, should be subject to 'privacy D66
impact analyzes ". Furthermore, privacy by design '
the starting point for large IT projects: legal protection and control must inte-

Fundamental rights apply in full on the Internet
D66 wants all legal information on the Internet
for all online remains accessible. The net neutrality must be guaranteed. D66 aims to ensure that
everyone remains owner of his own (personal) data and considers it important to Regu- awareness

47

D66 election for the House of 2012/2017

ones which personal data sometimes tender
for 'free' services on the Internet. Business
D66 should start giving clearer insight into the
data they have on a person.
Internet users to their data or complete profile
take them to other providers or allow deletion.
Cybersecurity D66 wants the Netherlands has
sufficient competence and capacity in the
area of ​​cybercrime. New cyber security measures must be based on real and verifiable threats and digital investigative powers
should be enshrined in law. Watched
It must be creeping expansion of the concept of cybercrime. In addition, measures which
potentially restricting fundamental rights after a certain period
expire. Regarding Internet tapverzoeken by
D66 wants justice that the notification requirement continues and no further interception capabilities for Internet.
ICT government wants to D66 standard websecurityrichtlijnen for the government where all the rich applications
must meet. There should be guidelines to be
developed for reporting vulnerabilities
websites by third parties. D66 wants the
Dutch government precursor is in the field of
open data by making data available as long as
these data do not contain any personal data. The Internet and digital-related topics such as internet, privacy and telecommunications should be within the
public administration under the accountability
introduced by the Ministry of ELI.
Copyright media and online copyright
must not lead to a restriction of Internet freedom. There is an adjustment to the European level
Copyright necessary to modern times. D66 thinks
This includes the radio model for music. D66 tunes
against ACTA. Furthermore D66 wants copyright organizations work together so that for
large groups of users with a single point of contact
arises. These collaborating organizations must
have an independent and transparent judicial remedy to prevent unjust payments. D66 wants to see e-books and audio books under
drop the low VAT rate, as paper books.

48

Freedom through Self-Determination

49

D66 election for the House of 2012/2017

Freedom
by right

50

Freedom by law

>? Right
>? A hospitable Netherlands
>? International security and defense
>? Development
develops into international
collaboration
>? International Citizenship

A man can not be free without justice. Therefore, the rule of law
since our inception, a key priority for D66. Let people
limit their freedom by the state to protect their freedom.
They must be confident that the state does not have power
abused. That power is never taken for granted and must always critical
be questioned and checked and are based on principles
as legal.

51

D66 election for the House of 2012/2017

A law that protects the freedom of people, with a
democratically controlled power and guaranteed rights,
is a condition. Without a well-functioning rule of law and
Democracy does not exist freedom. That's why the D66 defends
constitutional values ​​and democracy in the Netherlands passionately
and we strive after them in the rest of the world. Our proposals
regard to justice, security and police, but also international
cooperation, defense and asylum have their basis in this endeavor.
Straight
The main protection for the rule of law
is formed by an independent, impartial
and effective system of security, enforcement, investigation and prosecution, embedded in unquestioned
fundamental rights. Constant alertness, maintenance
and action is necessary to protect it.
Separating safety and persecution D66 finds it
undesirable responsibility for safety
and enforcement (police) and persecution (OM
and court) under one ultimately responsible for
bring. D66 chooses these roles explicitly
separating and re-placing together in separate
ministries. The guarantees for the rule of law
outweigh possible efficiency gains.
Accessible, impartial and expert
D66 justice stands firm for good and accessible justice. The costs of procedures, such as
court fees, need to bring people through
and legal aid for people
on a small budget should be maintained.
Digitization, process innovation and cameras in the
courtroom can contribute to accessibility.
Digitisation also a uniform and simplified procedure in civil and administrative law possible
make.
To strengthen the independence of judges D66 wants the registry up to date and additional function
is complete and complaints are handled by an independent body. Judges have the chance
get to develop through training and flow. Also to content specialist. D66
in favor of the possibility to involve external experts in the meeting room. Regarding the judiciary supports D66
the scale of the administrative courts in accordance with
The new judicial map.
Fight crime D66 wants police visible on the streets and find it especially important to detect criminals, arrested
be condemned. There is still to strike a blow
52

by making reporting simpler,
supported by a declaration tracking.
The probability of detection should then move up. D66 wants a
better approach to organized crime as
human trafficking, drug trafficking, child pornography and financial-economic and environmental crimes.
Combat forced prostitution advocates D66
more investigative capacity to fight
trafficking and wants the forced prostitutes
make it easier to step out of their occupation,
specialized care for these victims of
trafficking. D66 therefore wants the Law Regulating
Prostitution not enter.
Abolish weed pass D66 is to abolish the
rural weed pass because it promotes illegal street and nuisance. D66 wants the cultivation of cannabis
legalized and regulated so that growing and selling are controlled via a closed and taxpayer chain, where criminals are kept.
Firmly against Violence Prevention and Punishment of
Violence is our priority. In addition to solid performance
against violence in robberies and burglaries D66 wants to identify domestic violence and violence against women early. Most violence against women occurs
within one's own family. Schools, healthcare facilities and
Police should cooperate closely to this violence
rather to detect. Verbal or physical violence against
gay men, lesbians and other minorities for
D66 unacceptable. Homophobic and racist violence
must be registered separately for offenders better
detect and prosecute. Also wants to D66
information about (sexual) diversity in schools,
to prevent such forms of violence.
More prevention and risk of being caught up the chance of being caught
must be raised. Requires investment
in ICT in the police, so that citizens can more easily report it via the Internet, and include
more detectives and forensic experts needed.
D66 also wants to invest in informing people about how they themselves can contribute to their own
safety and that of their community. D66

Freedom by law

prefers the approach of degradation and
unsafe places and the deployment of police officers
street, but on the other hand puts a taboo on the use
of instruments such as CCTV. It will
D66 always work with legislation that at some
time expires.
Penalties D66 sees punishment as a core part of
a functioning legal system, to prevent recurrence, as deterrence and retaliation. D66, however, is against minimum sentences. That would be the judge
be deprived of the possibility to impose an appropriate punishment in a specific individual case.
Probation continues to play a prominent role. D66
wants in a community restoration of the damage
damage and a visible positive contribution to the society. D66 finds that compensation
This damage by offenders or their parents rule
must be. In case of punishment for juveniles should be of
D66 also be started immediately family care.
OM and Police focused on crimes D66 wants
the prosecution is focused again on her
core task: directing the detection and
prosecution of criminal offenses. All other duties as judge should be reduced where possible. D66 wants less administrative
liabilities, smart ICT and more targeted actions
at the police. Agents are therefore more street
and more effective. Precisely evening. Furthermore, for D66
introduction of a national police special investigating anywhere, without a decision
about violence means, must be
accommodated.
Police work in a European context D66
aims to strengthen police and judicial cooperation within the EU. The EU should be an area of ​​justice. To that end, much remains to be done on
concerning common rules but also
and especially in the field of mutual trust.
Cooperation between police and judicial authorities and Europol
Eurojust should be maximized for this in the coming period.
Free speech sowing hatred and calling
violence is a criminal offense, without it there is no legal restriction on the freedom of expression.
D66 is why for instance wants to delete the prohibition on humiliating blasphemy. D66 opposes
Weight unreasonable in our view given to the protection of refusing civil servants
versus the right of gay couples to marry. There
comes after years of waiting for an end to the possibility
to refuse.
No burqa ban D66 sees no reason to
the burqa ban. People are free in their choice of clothing. When it comes to work, however, may well require
are placed on. Certain clothes can be as prescribed because of the hygiene, safety or neutrality which a particular function
must radiate.
53

Countering violent extremism D66 wants
violent extremism of religious extreme right and extreme left-wing groups is detected in time. Signals from educational institutions,
police and social workers should effectively
are brought together. In order to achieve this,
national and local services work together more closely.
D66 wants to marry a criminal offense that is punishable forced to marry.
Modernize rules parenthood D66 wants equal
opportunities for men and women in the upbringing
and care of their children during and after
a relation. Litigation about parenting must be reduced in favor of mediation and
handling guidance. D66 is in the interest
the child's parents in case of divorce
through a parenting agreement to co-parenting
come. D66 also wants alimony and
matrimonial modernize the promotion of self-reliance. It should D66
parenthood shall automatically be opened
for the lesbian co-mother.

A hospitable Netherlands
D66 wants in asylum cases just, humane and rigorous
are. Preferably in a European context. There are limits to
include our ability seekers. But in the
implementation of these limitations is paramount
we want to be a welcoming country to the core.
Integration and integration Integrate means
to join D66. Therefore, we expect immigrants that they learn the language, get a degree,
Find a job and abide by the rules.
Work is the driving force behind successful
integration.
D66 herewith is based on the individual. We judge people not on the basis of background, color
or faith, but because of what they do.
Tolerance is the key. That does not
we find anything but good. Where appropriate,
We absolutely clear boundaries.
Integration prepares people to our society. D66 wants fundamental rights such as equality
gay people are part of the integration examination. The withdrawal of the residence permit by failing for the integration course
is disproportionate and contrary to international law. D66 delete this rule.
Quick processing procedures D66 thinks
The government must decide within three years
on the right of residence of the applicant. The sanctions, for example in the form of a penalty, thereby providing the necessary incentives for speed. As
after an asylum procedure that there is no right to protection, the government should be clear:
the alien must return to his country
origin.

D66 election for the House of 2012/2017

Asylum seekers learn and work D66 wants it
for asylum seekers in the period in which they wait
for clarity, it is possible to learn and to operate. This promotes their independence and also
in the interest of Dutch society. From
D66 school-age applicants to their training, including apprenticeship, finish.
For a 'wortelingswet' for
If children Asylum children over 8 years
Netherlands and stay rooted, it may
they remain D66.
Limit asylum detention Asylum seekers may, pending the outcome of their asylum procedure,
no more than four weeks are detained. D66
do not want kids in the cell; for them should always
alternatively be sought.
European asylum system D66 wants the Netherlands
is committed to quickly completing the
European Asylum System. The accent will be on an equal opportunity to be admitted into
the European Union and a fair distribution of asylum seekers amongst Member States. Now, the differences in
procedures and their outcomes and be too big
Member States at the borders of Europe, such as Italy and
Greece overloaded. This leads to illegality,
human rights violations and invisible migration. Asylum seekers and children
asylum seekers have rights. These rights are fixed
in international treaties and European agreements.
Netherlands must adhere strictly to here.
Family reunification simplify D66 will not
new barriers to family reunification and formation
and abolishing all rules on this issue contrary
with its treaty obligations.
Residence permits must be at least 10 years
funds. The fees for residence permits should
in the short term, be reduced to an amount that
in relation to the application for a passport.
Levying fees may not lead to the
right to family life is limited. D66 wants
the implementation of the rules on family reunification
between Member States of the European Union to be harmonized reaching.

International security
and defense
A good international legal and security
worldwide are not only in our own interest, but
form the basis for peace, freedom and prosperity
we grant to all people.
Human rights and justice D66 wants the
Dutch government is actively working to fulfill
of human rights in the world. For
D66 human rights are universal, they apply to
anyone, anytime, anywhere. LGBT rights and emancipation are a part. D66 wants the Netherlands
54

set the agenda acts and threatened defenders
Human Rights provides fast temporary relief.
Truth-law and can be part of the prevention and elimination of conflict. We want that the Netherlands, in The Hague
as the legal capital of the world, continues to make an important contribution. Any attempt to restrict the powers of the Human Rights
Strasbourg rejects D66.
Better collaboration within and between the EU, NATO
and the UN The EU and NATO have for D66 strategic partners who complement each other in the use of
diplomacy, development and military resources. NATO will, except on the safety of
its Member States, of D66 should focus on
stabilization operations, at the request and under mandate
of the UN. D66 wants more focus on the feasibility and practicality of military missions and for
the common criteria about leaving
from the conflict zone. D66 wants to encourage more countries to help pay for standing NATO
and EU missions, even if they do not fulfill those missions
participate.
Strict demands on military deployment D66 wants there
strict demands on Dutch military deployment. This commitment can take place only under strict conditions. The assessment framework is leading.
A mandate in accordance with international
right for D66 necessary commitment applies only within a clear (international) strategy and long
term vision. Military deployment or political support
a conflict situation requires a clear majority
in parliament and all military or political
support to a conflict (-operation) in this Room
be evaluated.
Powerful armed forces in the European context
D66 wants army, air force and navy together
can complement in a mission and / or support. The armed forces are equipped to support 3D (Development, Diplomacy &
Defence) - policy. We want the government should endeavor actively within the European Union to gradually
to adapt the national defense structures so as to
into the national military resources in a much more efficient and effective manner.
Common European defense budgets
are used for research, technological development, weapons acquisition and maintenance of equipment. D66 chooses inside for specialization
own armed forces. Only then can power and
quality are adequately safeguarded. Further
cut it with a cheese slicer is not an option.
Veterans For veterans wants D66 good care
and guidance. We show appreciation for their efforts
and sacrifices.
F16 replacement long-term D66 wants the next government's term does not replace the current F-16 fleet. Netherlands pulls out of the

Freedom by law

testing of the JSF and purchases in due course
successor 'off the shelf'. To arrive at a balanced judgment will find a new candidate comparison instead of possible successors to the F16. The
replacement of the F16 must take place in D66
joint European context.
Nuclear-weapon-free world, we wish that nuclear weapons be removed from the Netherlands. D66 supports
initiatives in the rest of the world to reduce the number of nuclear weapons sharply or completely
remove. Maintenance and enhancement of agreements on non-proliferation go with it. beside
D66 advocates limiting development and ownership
of small arms, cluster bombs and landmines
and strict measures against arms smuggling.
Combat and prevent terrorism
International terrorist networks are a
threat to stability and security in different regions. D66 wants the government in European
related works to reduce that threat.
This can be done by better cooperation
intelligence and security services, in which eight
is taken that the information exchange services obtained lawfully. There may be here several platforms for cooperation
arise, they must be of D66 are under democratic control, as is customary in Member States. In the context of the prevention of
Terrorism is important for more diplomatic
and to give humanitarian consideration to fragile states, their economic developments and the (political) participation of their citizens, such as Somalia,
Pakistan and Sudan.
Middle East, Afghanistan, North Africa
D66 wants, in line with the European Union, an unambiguous political conduct in the matter of the Israeli-Palestinian
conflict in which we are working towards a two-state solution. In addition, we strive for a comprehensive settlement to the conflict. D66 seeks a safe
and peaceful after Israel within the 1967 borders and a
viable Palestinian state. The Netherlands will VNKwartet-, at EU level and bilaterally active work
to promote peace and stability.
Netherlands continues to be involved in rebuilding
Afghanistan. The integrated police training mission
in Kunduz takes place under the agreements,
the international community withdraws.
D66 wants the Netherlands should continue to be involved
in Afghanistan. Furthermore D66 supports emerging democracies in North Africa and the Middle East.

Development
develops international cooperation
Everyone has the right to develop.
Of course, and we do not assume
Netherlands take responsibility for ieder55

a. But in the world we seek
all people opportunities to develop themselves and the
to get best out of themselves. In a world of emerging economies and economic equality we must look differently at
Development. Helping people,
from their own strength, even something about their situation
to do international cooperation so.
0.7% of GNP for maintaining international cooperation D66 wants the Netherlands
development budget remains at 0.7%. This suits
a generous, outwardly facing land, that a roll
wants to play in the world. In addition, we naturally aim
for increased effectiveness. When spending needs
more emphasis on encouraging self-reliance and customization. Women's rights, reproductive health and the empowerment of the Lesbians,
Gays, Bi-sexuals and Transgender (LGBT) remain
priorities. In addition, D66 feels that the new firm
Dutch set agenda for development should focus on good governance,
democracy, fighting corruption, and nature
environment and space for innovation and knowledge transfer. Good governance in fragile states with lots of minerals deserves more attention.
Optimal donor coordination and less
OS fragmentation D66 wants the Dutch
contributions are matched on a European level
increase effectiveness. D66 supports a
number of reforms already introduced: concentration on a
Some countries, emphasis on fragile states, more cooperation and income distribution by
investment and cooperation with the Dutch
business and support from other (institutional)
funds and donors. This reinforces the core concepts
D66 which stands in its vision on development cooperation: coherence and customization. D66 supports
to subsidize the reduction in the number of organizations and wants the subsidy dependence of NGOs
counter. Of companies that benefit from the development budget we expect socially
responsible entrepreneurship.
Sharing knowledge D66 wants to invest in co-operation
and knowledge exchange between clusters from Netherlands
and their counterparts in developing countries, such as
universities, research centers, enterprises and
schools.
Protect nature and the environment D66 reserve a
Part of the budget for conservation of nature and biodiversity. D66 takes unfair to expect the poorer countries that they weigh
conservation, education, development and health care entirely within their own resources
make. D66 pressing for the inclusion of environmental issues in WTO negotiations on such a
way that they are not counterproductive unpacking
developing countries. In this priority also includes
invest in innovation in sustainable land use.

D66 election for the House of 2012/2017

Fair trade D66 remains committed to a
better access to markets around the world and for the
distribution of fair trade principles. There is government support for public-private partnerships to ensure fair and sustainable feedstock supply.
D66 wants to work within the European Union to the
reducing trade-distorting subsidies
European agriculture. In addition, Netherlands
promotion that is spent on international purchases and leases land more attention to the
potential negative consequences for indigenous
population.
Modern international institutions D66 wants reform of multilateral institutions like the UN,
IMF, World Bank and WTO. Developing countries and
Emerging economies must be given a more equal position. In a modern international context also fits the creation of a
Financial International Criminal Court to combat
corruption. D66 advocated a review of the remuneration structures in international and multilateral
UN organizations so perverse incentives for international officials disappear.

International citizenship
Dutch think and act internationally.
Many of them are temporary or for very long time
live abroad. They are and remain
Dutch. D66 stands up for their rights.
Suffrage in the D66 abroad wants Dutch
citizens abroad (expats) better the opportunity to participate in elections.
Assistance from embassies improve D66 wants
better assistance for Dutch embassies in
foreign prisons, human rights defenders (including NGOs) abroad and abducted
children.
Maintaining two passports internationally oriented people often have links with several countries. Personal ties Dutch
with foreign countries form a valuable network
for economic and cultural exchange.
Restrictions on double passports
Dutch expats are reversed.

56

Freedom by law

57

D66 election for the House of 2012/2017

By liberty
democratic
board

58

Freedom through democratic governance

>? Decisive and

democratic Europe
> 'Better parliamentary control
>? Provinces are parts of the country
>? Strong communities
>? Burgers to move
D66 calls for a public administration that decisive and so close
possible is organized in humans. As well as a functioning
rule of law, democratic governance is an important guarantee for
our freedom. Our administrative landscape and our democracy are to
to a thorough modernization. Not as an end in itself but as a means
to enable people to exert more direct influence on
their representatives and their managers.
In the small Netherlands, with more than 400 municipalities, 27 water, 12 provinces, the central government and also membership in the EU, it is administrative pressure. Administrative responsibilities often overlap or are unclear. Drivers sit together
in the way. Democratic control is often insufficiently regulated
or even absent. This causes delays, blockages
in decision-making, slowness in implementation and resistance
change. Of these, the Dutch eventually suffer.

59

D66 election for the House of 2012/2017

D66 has clear plans to achieve a more agile,
transparent and more democratic governance. We want bigger, powerful
municipalities, the incorporation of provinces and water in the
intermediate levels and improve the national and European
democracy.
Decisive governance of the EU To make the EU more effective, D66 wants to abolish the rotating presidency and by the people directly
elected European president. On the grounds of the
Common Foreign and
Security policy, we want to get rid of the requirement
decisions by unanimity. D66 wants a strong
Commissioner for Justice who loves vigorous oversight in the area of ​​rule of law and
respect for human rights and land forces if necessary adjustments. The European Union
Always open to new members, provided they meet tough criteria for accession and subsequent strictly assessed
are. To administrative transparency within the Union
D66 wants to extend the current arrangements for
open government in the EU (the so-called
"Eurowob) improve.
Better parliamentary control in Europe
D66 opts for parliamentary scrutiny of the level
where the powers are exercised: nationally at national and European powers in matters which we regulate European. This means that D66
finds that the European Parliament (EP) on the
European policy full legislative and
check must be empowered and also individual
Commissioners should be sent home. For
elections to the European Parliament should
Europeans can vote for transnational lists. And if it were up to D66, the EP now meet only in Brussels and Strasbourg as
abolished meeting venue.
Better parliamentary control in Netherlands
To strengthen the system of parliamentary control at the national level D66 wants the monitoring tools of the Lower House
supplemented and improved. If at least one third
part of the House's request, a parliamentary inquiry must be held, with the possibility of hearings under oath. The
parliament must also easier
gain access to officials. In addition, the need to
Lower House right of consent given to the appointment of directors of implementation-oriented,
independent administrative bodies (IAB) and they too
need to account by the House of Representatives
to be called. D66 wants the indirectly elected First
Abolish room. Before that can happen is
first do a full system of constitutional
testing to be introduced.
60

D66 wants to standardize rules for civil servants
that workers in businesses and government alike
being treated. This stimulates the flow-through
between public and private jobs and make it easier to monitor a healthy age structure of employees in the government. Therefore, we must
normalize the status of civil servants. D66
has submitted a private member's bill to this
possible to make.
A small National D66 aims to compact
ministries that focus on their core business.
Secondary or supporting roles of ministries,
such as the development and management of ICT, facility
business and administrative handling, wants
D66 organize government-wide central, or outsource. Current initiatives are put and reinforces this.
Provinces are parts of the country are provinces
an intermediate layer between Europe, government and municipalities. They
contribute significantly to the administrative
crowds. They also perform tasks to small municipalities can not handle. D66 wants to provinces
on the one hand a focus on the core and on the other
side a consolidation into fewer, larger
parts of the country, starting with the Randstad. In the
Randstad is the need for better coordination between major cities, provinces and other
municipalities urgent. A new government comes after a
Six months to a bill on the
Randstad Board, which includes the manner and
the conditions under which the peri-urban area
- The quadrilateral Amsterdam - The Hague - Rotterdam Utrecht - a land part. D66 wants parts of the country to focus on spatial, economic
and traffic and transport issues. Inside the
parts of the country continues to focus on the cultural identity of the original provinces and remain there
contact points in the individual provinces
ensuring accessibility.
D66 wants to take to the water authorities in the
intermediate levels as executing agencies. The tax base of these parts of the country together with
those of the municipalities and the rising of the water boards reviewed.
The municipality Municipalities will strengthen more
and more tasks delegated, such as welfare,
urban policy, labor market and social security, but also caring responsibilities of the State, of the

Freedom through democratic governance

provinces and duties of independent public bodies. D66 supports this movement that has started.
What efficiently and effectively close to the citizen
can be organized we draw
in municipalities.
Only powerful municipalities can properly carry out these missions. Some municipalities
this are too small. D66 therefore wants every
municipality determines whether the municipality can perform these tasks. In this test
inter alia, the administrative and financial
power measured. It is also considered taking
the effectiveness and democratic
of existing partnerships between
municipalities. Based on this test, and municipalities under the direction of the provinces come up with
proposed reclassification. Step by step, this will
lead to fewer but powerful municipalities.
These councils will in large municipalities
more policy itself and fully control and monitor. Municipalities will have to scale up this process two years. To make this possible,
Making D66 will therefore revise the national reorganization framework. Through this scale will
D66 the number of small municipalities reduction
and the number of top municipal regulations
certainly reduced to 30%.
To properly from their extensive duties
conduct given municipalities more discretion
and financial resources. For this reason, it is also an
considerable increase in the own municipal tax area is necessary.
The citizen puts drivers at all levels
(Mayor, Commissioner of the Queen,
Prime Minister and EU President) have a
increasing policy-making role, democratic nomination and control increasingly important
makes. D66 wants at all these levels by the population elected officials who have their own cabinet
or college assemblies. D66 also wants citizens
at all levels in the early stages of decision-making and that the potential exists for a corrective referendum. It is
to the government using ICT people
to enable participation and autonomy to shape
give.
Every voter in the event of a political conflict
between college and council or provincial council to move
bringing even for municipalities and provinces must enter a termination right.
D66 wants to finally introduce good
Whistleblower, those citizens who denounce abuses protects, and has already submitted a private member to do so.
Modern Kingship D66 see that the head of state plays a valuable role in connecting
our society. This should be the core business of
its head of state. It does not fit the head of state is part of the Government, the Council of
State and has a role in the formation.
Signing of laws and 'Royal'
61

Decisions are unnecessary. The King does not reign
more "by the grace of God." Thanks D66 takes
Room already at the forefront of the formation.
Amendment of the Constitution for the procedure
Amendment of the Constitution will adjust so that D66
changes faster and more democratic.
For example by pursuing a qualified majority in the States-General an opinion on the
voters to ask. Basic civil liberties and non-discrimination and freedom
of expression of D66, in their essence
untouchable. Undermining these fundamental rights
should be through a revision of the Constitution
are excluded.
D66 modernization Constitution calls for a coherent program for modernization
of the Constitution, partly on the basis of the report of the State Commission and in both Thomassen
Rooms accepted motions on this subject.
BES islands D66 wants the Netherlands as a reliable partner to cooperate in good governance, capacity building, knowledge sharing, digital
citizen communication and financial resilience.
Bonaire, Saba and St. Eustatius bears
Netherlands responsibility. The transition to
special municipalities is accompanied by the necessary
growing pains. D66 wants the Netherlands to act as a constructive and without paternalism. Thereby wants D66
a digital point of contact for residents of these
called BES islands for questions, suggestions
and complaints about the government.
No D66-ers with dual mandate
Representatives of D66 have no
dual mandate of representing different levels. Membership of the Second or
Upper House, Provincial and City Council
to get the attention it deserves and should not
to be combined with a second representative function.

D66 election for the House of 2012/2017

Culture

62

Culture

>? Give art and culture space
>? Vital heritage
>? Media and public broadcasters

For D66, culture is an inspiration to everyone, not a 'hobby'
or luxury item for the few. Arts, culture and heritage can
connect and distinguished. They help a society
constantly in themselves reflect. We feel a strong cultural
and creative sector is a prerequisite for an open, himself
evolving and interconnected society. Culture also has
also economic value. A thriving cultural sector is one reason
to want to live somewhere and makes our country in that way
attractive to talent and business.

63

D66 election for the House of 2012/2017

Free and diverse media are an integral part of
a prosperous society and a functioning democracy. The critical
and viewing eye is necessary for the control and for the
accountability convening power. A free press is also the engine of
dialogue and debate in a society that is constantly evolving.
The government has an important role in ensuring media freedom.
Give art and culture
space
We want the government to the creative abilities,
the ingenuity and innovative power
people actively and generously supports and encourages. The government should not act as assessor
art, but to create conditions so that artists get their own responsibility and
can be (among) taken. In addition, D66 is convinced that there can be no creative summit without a
wide base and plenty of room for talent. The government therefore has a great responsibility to the creative base
stimulation.
In recent years hard cuts in the cultural sector. D66 wants the targeted thus applied
repair the damage. At the same time we embrace the
energy response has been released and stimulate
we the cultural sector to be more independent.
Low VAT for cultural D66 sector is in favor of an entrepreneurial culture sector.
The increase in VAT on the arts
the sector at this point a great disservice.
D66 has this happy - both visual
as the performing arts - can reverse.
This reinforces the arts of earning capacity.
More private money D66 wants the tax-friendly

instruments expand that makes it possible for more people and businesses to invest in arts and culture. The 'geefwet' in current form
inadequate herein. For the Dutch film industry D66 wants a 'tax shelter' forms
so that entrepreneurship is encouraged and
Dutch film can be as big as he is now.
Aimed damage repair D66 has allocated funds to
aims to repair damage that have caused the recent cuts in the breeding grounds of the
arts. The focus was to save a few for talent
crucial orchestras, production companies and groups.
Targeted international D66 wants the international
cultural and combine in a focused number of countries and cities committed, so better use the cultural and economic potential. The current
64

policy of Dutch art, culture, fashion,
to promote design and history is not effective
enough. Moreover, the policy is fragmented over
various ministries.
Promote loan collections We want the
government will act as guarantor for the uninsured
lending of museum objects. By a so-called indemnity arrangement makes it easier
for museums to lend itself to organize collections and exhibitions.
Strengthen the art export D66 advocated strengthening the arts and wants to export artists and art institutions that are more active abroad
guide. This by working more closely with international educational programs with Holland Marketing and business. Subsidies
should be open to international tender.
Art Archives accessible D66 wants
art archives are digitized as much as possible, and connected to each other. Not only because
the lower cost but also because it increases accessibility.
Art Theft combat We want a country
accessible (digital) registry of stolen art and
antique. Following the international registers
it must better registration for individuals,
traders, holders of collections and specialized police and courts are more possible
stolen objects to find and crimes
to solve.
Art and Culture in the teaching of Culture
US all. Every child should be able to know this
make. Because it is an enrichment. Therefore wants D66
attention to culture at every school. And
the culture card continued in novel form.

Vital heritage
Our heritage is a bridge between our past and
our future. D66 considers it important that our
society with them this sense of history
wear. The government has the responsibility
to guarantee the preservation of our cultural heritage

Culture

and to continue to protect against economischeen political issues of the day. A clear selection policy with attention to both preservation and advancement
is indispensable.
Establishing heritage trust D66 will not go along
the process initiated at the monument Property
the central government assets to market and lower
governments. D66 wants to set up a trust in which the
government possession are national monuments
accommodated.

Media and public broadcasters
A diverse media and broadcasting landscape is of
highest importance for a society that wants to continue to develop their critical ability. D66 looks
For the government a facilitating role.
They should dedicate themselves to maintaining the public broadcaster with a varied program
and a diverse broadcasting landscape.
A healthy public broadcasting We want the
public broadcaster will focus much more on
diverse program offerings. It is the fusion of
existing broadcasters a first step towards a
new broadcasting system. D66 wants the existing and
new broadcasters in the future production houses
which are based on content, not on the basis of
membership, get airtime in public broadcasting.
D66 see potential profit in bundling, shedding
or privatization of services that are now housed at the individual broadcasters (eg
translation services). News, current affairs, innovative
Dutch entertainment and drama have priority
get with the program.
Access funds to commercial broadcasters
D66 wants commercial broadcasters will like the public access to funds to stimulate
of Dutch drama and documentary series. Also
Online parties are required to use them. Allocation of funds is also necessary so
transparent as possible to happen in all cases, and
to be disputed.
Stimulation for the press This fund should
be open to all media.
Independent local broadcasters Local and regional broadcasters are now financially dependent on the
local politics. This is undesirable. D66 wants the
The Media Authority is funding the local broadcasting, so that local broadcasters can operate independently. D66 has a private member to do so
filed.

65

D66 election for the House of 2012/2017

Financial framework:
goals, principles
and building blocks
The ongoing economic crisis has repercussions on public finances. With Budget Agreement was reached that the budget deficit in 2013
remains under 3%. An important first step
sound public finances. Crucial to confidence of consumers, businesses and financial markets. At the same time it is clear that there is also
after 2013 is a major challenge. The Central Plan
Bureau and the Study Group on
The Ministry of Finance estimated that
there are between 15 and 20 billion in additional measures
is needed.
D66 is and remains committed to sound public finances. But it's cut is always right '
mantra is not ours. This is shown again and again to
lead to short-term policy and cut unproductive. D66 wants to send on the quality of the public
finances. We believe in a clever mix of reform, investment and cut spending. Our ultimate
goal is to the boundary conditions in the long-term
for a prosperous and sustainable future
To realize the Netherlands.
The principles of the D66 fiscal policy
and the financial highlights are: first major fast
steps towards a safe margin to the border
the budget deficit of 3% of our economy.
Then D66 in 2017 will achieve a structurally balanced budget and public finances for the longer term healthy
(shelf life) make.

A number of clear principles form the basis under
Our budget proposals:
- Reforms should ensure more
economic growth and employment so
we earn from the problem;
- Cuts in government expenditures search
we are the first in expenses that we believe
people should be able to afford or
which we see enough added value;
- Last Shift focuses on growth and sustainability: we make work more attractive,
while things we want less, as
contamination or unhealthy life harder
be taxed;
- Sound public finances and in the hand
Keeping spending and the tax burden is good
for our society. It is not a 'punishment'
is imposed on us from outside, but a normal principle of each household expenses
66

that we are in the last few years too much from the eye
are lost. There are limits to the batter
which public spending on the economy
can lay.

The main building blocks among our
financial proposals
- Reform of employment, retirement, social
security and self-employed schemes linked to
reduction of taxes on labor. More jobs
and lower benefit expenses are the result;
- Continue the reform of the housing market
by reforming the sale and rental side. So
We further limit mortgage interest deductibility,
combined with the abolition of the transfer tax and the notional rental value.
The remaining proceeds will be used to
reducing income tax rates;
- Investing in education and research. D66
will invest up to approximately 2 billion in additional teachers,
fundamental research, lifelong learning and
higher quality of education;
- Health care expenditure will not by 4-5% per annum
grow, but the growth is slowed to approximately
3% per year. D66 achieves this by sending on:
prevention, healthy longer live at home, more
care in the neighborhood, setting its own contributions, reform of the EMEA and more
quality and cost in curative care;
- Greening our economy through targeted
support for renewable energy, taxing pollution and reduce the cost of labor;
- Cutbacks are on board with the transition
to fewer provinces and municipalities and
1 National Office, through the harmonization of child arrangements, abolish free textbooks and
work placements and the steps
from the JSF program;
- D66 targeted investments in nature and culture,
which represent essential values
which not by changing economic
circumstances may be damaged.

We have described what D66 wants,
what measures we take and where our priorities lie. With this we are able to make the necessary reforms, investments and savings
to Realise. The exact financial impact of these
measures at this time by the CPB
mapped. In late August publishes CPB
the outcomes.

Financial framework: objectives, principles and building blocks

67

D66 election for the House of 2012/2017

Colophon
This election has been concluded
under the responsibility of the permanent
program committee D66, consisting of:
Marty Smits President
Jieskje Hollander
Frank van Mil
Ad van Vugt
Kirsten Nienhuis
Timo Kansil

For substantive guidance and support to the
realization of this election
The permanent program committee is special
indebted to:
Hans Wijers

For thinking or co-writing, and
it read along and editing the content of this
program owes the program committee further:
All Themed Departments of D66
The parliamentary group of D66 and its
employees, especially Joost Faster,
Edo Haveman, Robin de Roon &
Marita van Gessel
First parliamentary party of D66
and its employees
The D66 delegation in the ALDE group in the
Parliament and its staff
Several participants from Route66
The National Bureau of employees
D66, particularly Gosse Vuijk
Several experts - members and non-members -
who share their knowledge and disinterested services
Available suggested

editing
Maurice Eykman
form
the design fleet
is M. Joost Dekker
busy
QuantesArtoos

68
