NEW
TRUST
SP election program 2013-2017

NEW CONFIDENCE

2

CONTENT

CONTENT

INTRODUCTION

5

1. INNOVATION AND ECONOMIC GROWTH

7

2. YOUR COUNTRY, YOUR CHOICE

11

3. A SHARED FUTURE

13

4. SECURITY IN CRISIS TIME

17

5. CARE IS NO MARKET

21

6. CRIMINALS PICKING,
PROTECTING CITIZENS

27

7. INVESTMENT IN KNOWLEDGE AND EDUCATION

31

8. A BEAUTIFUL COUNTRY AND VIABLE

35

9. GOOD TRANSPORTATION FOR EVERYONE

39

10. WORRIES TO EACH OTHER

43

11. A CLEAN FUTURE

47

12. GROUND TO MOUTH

51

13. NOT BY BREAD ALONE

55

14. INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION

59

15. HEALTHY FINANCES

65

ANNEX 1: ABBREVIATIONS AND DIFFICULT CONCEPTS

69

ANNEX 2: REPORTS BY SP 2010-2012

73

3

NEW CONFIDENCE

photo Martijn Beekman / Holland Height ©

4

INTRODUCTION

INTRODUCTION

The Netherlands is a beautiful country with great potential. And ample opportunity for a bright future. Nevertheless
many people are very worried. About their jobs, about the future of their children. Concerns about the
society in which we live and how we interact. The economic crisis has a lot of uncertainty
accommodated. In recent years, many people have lost confidence. In directors and bankers, politicians
and managers - and each other. The right-wing policy of "more market and individual responsibility, the economy has been in dire straits, social security and eroded the division increased in our country. Egoism
and self-enrichment are rewarded worry to another and care for one another are getting harder
created. Which threatens the cohesion of our society.
The current crisis is not a natural disaster, but the result of political choices. By frightened politicians who no
dared to take responsibility and hoped that the market for them would solve all problems. Us
rich country by irresponsible behavior of bankers, investors and executives have run into serious problems.
Those with the least to blame for the crisis now threatening to have to pay the bill. Workers and small
self-employed people, youth and students, the elderly and the sick. They deliver, while those who left the economy
derail largely remain unaffected. They give each other ridiculous salaries, bonuses and bizarre
profiteering, while citizens do not even know whether their money is still safe their jobs persists and
there still is soon to retire them. But it can be different. If you want that.

YOUR COUNTRY, YOUR CHOICE
On September 12 you are talking. These elections determine whether our society is even harder
and the dichotomy even bigger, or if we make a choice and we are going to build a more social,
humane and sustainable Netherlands. How do you expect in the future we treat each other? What
society do you want to live? What kind of world you want to leave for your children? That choice is yours!
The Rutte has brought our country into trouble. The government of VVD and CDA (first tolerated
by PVV and SGP, followed by D66, Christian Union and GroenLinks), the richest let go their way. And
cuts billions citizens. On health and education, housing and employment, supervision and security. This
austerity politics increases the divisions in society and stifles economic growth. Therewith
we hit a dead end. Hard cuts lead to a weaker economy - and thus
to weather more cuts. This can be different!

NEW BUILDING TRUST
In this election, we present our kit. We also do it frugal with your tax money. And we ask for an extra contribution to the costs of the society, especially of people who
already have hit well. Similarly, we can protect what is valuable in times of crisis and invest
in what unites us. We leave people out in the cold and investing in jobs, education, healthcare and security.
Right now we are going to build new confidence. We hope that while we can count on your support.

5

NEW CONFIDENCE

THIS WE PROMISE YOU:
We tackle the causes of the crisis.
Only then people's confidence can be regained.
We take our responsibility.
Only then can we sustain social services.
We offer people social security.
Only then can confidence be restored in another.
We have the strongest shoulders bear the heaviest burden.
Only then can we create a strong and inclusive society.
We opt for sustainable development.
Only then can we face the future with confidence.
In provinces and municipalities we have demonstrated that we can control well. Now we ask you us
opportunity to provide for the whole country. The SP is needed for social government that knows that politics is
for you - and not vice versa. How? We tell you in this election.
The exact basis for this election can be found in a series of reports which we
have made recently. Look at our website: www.sp.nl You will also find an overview of
all our views.

6

INNOVATION AND ECONOMIC GROWTH

1. INNOVATION AND ECONOMIC GROWTH

European leaders looked in recent years more to financial markets than to the needs of the
citizens. The Dutch government joins it. This has led to a stupid austerity policy, which
the economic recovery in Europe hampers extraordinary. This leads to loss of jobs and major financial
uncertainty, especially in small and medium enterprises (SMEs) - the engine of our economy. Political parties
all the space offered to bankers and directors, shareholders and speculators have a great responsibility. This neoliberal mismanagement can our country afford any more. It is high time for a
social alternative.
Besides sophisticated cuts, to get the public treasury in order, we are already in 2013 three billion euros
additional investment in our economy. In the maintenance of homes and schools, roads and railways. By
office buildings to build to build housing and homes that are energy efficient. These investments are good for SMEs. We also take measures to reduce the social security and
improve legal protection for SMEs and self-employed. A National Investment Bank ensures that
the industry, but also small businesses can invest more. And ensure that the internet - increasingly important in our society - remains accessible to all and privacy on the net is assured.

OUR PROPOSALS
ECONOMY
1. We start 2013 in a special investment program to help our economy back on track
and promote employment. We do this through maintenance of houses and railways,
get schools and universities, dikes and roads forward. The housing can be stimulated by office buildings be converted to living space and to switch to energy-efficient
housing.
2. We will keep the VAT rate equal, for further increase directly affects the purchasing power of people and
very bad for the recovery of SMEs.
3. A new National Investment Bank (NIB), which will provide loans to fundamentally
healthy and well-managed companies. Thus we ensure that as the industry again
can invest and thus can create more jobs. Also, this investment bank
long-term investment finance in sustainable economy.
4. Small businesses get us a fairer chance in public procurement. By the favor of large companies we end. The profit tax for small businesses, we keep low.
Big companies on the other hand let's make an additional contribution.
5. High cost of two years of wage payment for sick employees are a big risk for the
SMEs and an obstacle to take people on a permanent basis. Therefore,
the costs for employees who are sick for more than half a year now paid out a collective

7

NEW CONFIDENCE

insurance. We will also work on better arrangements for disability and pension
For self-employed.
6. We improve legal protection for businesses against unfair trade practices, such as
deception and deceit.
7. The number of Sunday openings is limited to 12 per year. Only areas demonstrably tourism
his may exceptionally, provided that the social interests of stakeholders (retailers and
store staff) be guaranteed.
8. Employers deal with a personal contribution to help pay for the implementation of employee insurance.
The burden of ill personnel by paying for small businesses distributed more fairly.
9. We put a stop to top incomes. Administrators in the public and semi-public sector
earn no more than the minister. Bonuses at banks and other financial institutions
be completely eliminated. We encourage social partners to oblige undertakings
to institute good policies and not paying ridiculously high salaries and bonuses.
10. We uphold the dismissal. That is better for the employees and also better for a stable economy. The duration of unemployment is not reduced.
11. Employers in SMEs often have too little money to the first half year to pay unemployment benefits, which
promotes hiring people on temporary contracts. Therefore, we are against the payment of the
first half WW by these employers. The burden for paying by ill personnel
for smaller companies distributed more fairly. Employers deal with a personal contribution to help pay the
implementation of employee insurance. The obligation to seek the unemployed depending on the
individual circumstances and the work prospects.
12. We separate savings and investment banks. Thus we prevent banks may gamble with
savings of their customers. We do this at European level. In anticipation of Dutch banks have already clearly separate internal risky and less risky activities.
13. The bank tax is increased and supplemented by a financial transaction tax. That inhibits speculation and encourages available capital is deployed in the real economy.
14. wanpresterende drivers to better address are the legal options
expanded. There will be a separate penal provision for financial mismanagement. Also, the civil
liability of directors increases.
15. We encourage intelligent collaboration between companies, governments and research institutions, as already
attempts in Brainport in Brabant, Limburg Chemelot, Energy Valley in Groningen, in Wetsus
Friesland and Innovation Jump Twente. Through intensive collaboration can research and development (R & D) in such locations at world level. We are happy to support further innovation in the
industry but also in the creative sector and ICT. By business subsidies that bring little yield
However, we the broom. We are reluctant occupying chairs by companies
at universities and colleges.
16. Our economy would benefit from greater involvement of employees in decision-making in enterprises. We want employees will choose at least half of the number of commissioners of large enterprises. The works councils can we strengthen them if we consent law
give in mergers, acquisitions and the remuneration structure of the management.

8

INNOVATION AND ECONOMIC GROWTH

INTERNET AND ICT
17. Masses of people and companies make daily use of the possibilities offered by the internet. Internet therefore ranks in the future to remain accessible to all - and the government
to promote it serves. We encourage the use of open source. Internet providers may themselves
not interfere with the movement of their Internet users, as well as postal and telephone companies do not
may engage in the letters or phone calls from their clients.
18. For complex IT projects tendering often the wrong means to be a good partner
find. The government would do well to work in full consultation with the business community good
ICT solutions, knocking technical and stay within budget. People are at work
more involved in the development of ICT applications.
19. There are clear rules for the collection, storage and trading of profiles of Internet users.
20. Internet and telephony are increasingly important to our economy. It is precisely in the ICT is a large
opportunity for innovation. Therefore it is vital that these services operate reliably and
government monitors them. Citizens and businesses also have a great need for continuity of
Internet and telephone.
21. Free internet does not come easily with a download ban. The latter we will not. But
creative people, for example, films and music of course have the right to compensation for
their job. We are going to arrange, in consultation through the existing system of levies on carriers
and media.
22. Collecting and acting on information from the Internet by eg cookies and
'device fingerprinting be curbed. Governments and companies should not simply a
profile creating or saving someone innocently surfing the Internet. Everyone should easily
way to indicate they do not want to be followed on the Internet ("do-not-track-me).
23. Net neutrality is our top priority. No distinction is made by providers
costs for the one or the other type of data.
24. We reject the international trade agreement to combat counterfeiting (ACTA) off, because too few in this setting international standards for enforcing intellectual property
eye for the public interests of many people and too much for the economic interests of the few.

9

NEW CONFIDENCE

photo Peter Hilz / Hollandse Height ©

10

YOUR COUNTRY, YOUR CHOICE

2. YOUR COUNTRY, YOUR CHOICE

Quite a few politicians appeal to the individual responsibility. But they seem not themselves
dare to take responsibility for society. Market forces in health care and education, housing
and security, energy and public transport, have led not only to more expensive services,
but also reduced people's control over society. The organization of our country is too much
in the hands of an (old boys -) network drivers, who dumps it on jobs, student jobs and rewards
and connect with influential lobbies, such as those of international companies. That threatens democracy and
undermines people's trust in politics.
Citizens should have more to say about the organization of our society. We, therefore, stop the
Sale of public services, but the government make it more efficient. We also put an end to it
stacking of additional jobs by directors and the lobbying of big companies, we build ties. We stop
with the special privileges of politicians, such as the generous retainer, and the unnecessary hiring
expensive external employees in government. With the establishment of a "House for whistleblowers' we go
better protect people who report abuse. Local residents have their say about the organization
and the facilities in their neighborhood: they know best what works and what does not.

OUR PROPOSALS
1. We want to give people more control over what belongs to us all. We stop
Sale of public services. The government is not only primarily responsible for the organization of quality care and quality education, adequate public transport and sustainable energy,
but also for regular mail.
2. The Head of State focused in the future on important ceremonial duties, the ministers do it
political government work. Members of the Royal Family pay now own their own privékosten and
too - just like everyone else - tax on income and assets.
3. Politicians lose unnecessary privileges, such as the generous retainer. We abolish. Paid time jobs for mayors and Queen's Commissioners do not fit. The fees for all politicians go down and with it the 'Balkenende norm'.
4. There will be a 'House for whistleblowers' where any citizen who abuses reported good guidance,
receives financial support and legal and social abuses are investigated. That can protect our societies against corruption and unnecessary costs.
5. Supervision of parliament on the security is improved. The Review Committee
on Intelligence and Security (CTIVD) is the General Intelligence and Security Service
(AIVD) and the Military Intelligence and Security Service (DISS) regular reviews and monitoring
the efficiency of the services. There is an end to the commitment of journalists by secret
services.

11

NEW CONFIDENCE

6. Reclassification of municipalities only if this serves the interests of citizens. This now happens
just as the inhabitants of the municipalities agree, for example, through a referendum.
7. Doing things doubly pointless and expensive. Therefore we reduce the overlap of government in our
country. We make the provinces, the administrative layer between central and local government, simpler, more efficient and
democratic. The water boards we bring to the provinces. Board Regions we raise,
because people hardly have a say. Parishes we raise also favor
better ways to involve citizens in the organization of their own neighborhood. At all levels
we promote the removal of unnecessary red tape.
8. We improve the constitutional petition procedures in parliament. Citizens who turn to the
Or the Senate turn are entitled to serious consideration of their objection. Cooperation with the National Ombudsman is thereby obvious.
9. The number of expensive external employees of ministries, provinces and municipalities will be reduced drastically. Expenditure on external staff may not exceed ten percent of the personnel.
10. We give citizens the right to a consultative referendum, as strengthening representative
democracy. We also seek to launch as soon as possible a corrective referendum.
Local residents have their say about the organization of and facilities in their neighborhood: they
know best which may or may not have need for it.
11. We would like to see the government is brought closer to the people. But within that framework tasks
are transferred, there should also be provided with sufficient funds.
12. Lobbyists in parliament should register now engage in a public register.
13. The public administration Act (WOB), which gives the public an insight into government documents,
expanded. Information from the government is as much as possible over the internet for public access
created.
14. Safety must always prevail. The population is alerted in case of doubt in time and not only when
it is proven that there is a safety risk.
15. Dutch will be included in the Constitution, also the Frisian and Papiamentu
constitutionally protected.
16. When drawing up and implementing policies for Bonaire, Saba and Sint Eustatius is now much
greater consideration of the particular scale and circumstances of the islands.
17. Netherlands can not take responsibility for good governance in Curaçao, Aruba and Sint
Maarten. Therefore, we want a new Charter for the Kingdom, in which the countries offer each other help
based on equality.
18. The government is setting a good example when it comes to the security of Internet sites. All government sites to be tested quickly. Citizens should also be confident that their data is not too long or
be kept unnecessarily. Protection of privacy.

12

A SHARED FUTURE

3. A SHARED FUTURE

People in our country have different origins, but a shared future. The government policy has
The mutual differences rather exaggerated than smaller. With useless symbolic politics and the
allow gross and discriminatory language against migrants. There is needlessly lost time and there are chances
missed. Big words have distracted attention from the real issues. Young migrants get less
often a diploma, are difficult to work and are more often involved in crime. If people are not
live together, work together and not go to school creates alienation and growing indignation.
Netherlands must remain a country where people are welcome: as a tourist in order to do business, but also a
finding safe place. At the same time we must be honest about the consequences of migration. Many immigrants have found their place under the sun and contribute to the development of our society. But that
does not apply to everyone. Who lives here, has equal rights and duties. We do not allow someone
subordinated and always act against discrimination. We provide good conditions for schooling, housing
and work.

OUR PROPOSALS
INTEGRATION
1. Combating discrimination in the labor market - based on age, religion, sex, national origin or sexual orientation - has all priority. The labor inspectorate will have the opportunity to investigate reports of discrimination and fining offenders.
2. Businesses and organizations that have demonstrably be discriminated against by the labor inspectorate
harshly. 'Naming, blaming and shaming' is also found in order for companies to improve their behavior
to bring.
3. It is better to bring work to people than people to have economic reasons to move to other countries. We advocate at European level to temporarily reintroduce work permits for Eastern European workers, human trafficking in labor and disruption of the
labor counter. We enable companies financially responsible for decent housing, language training and education of workers. Who the Dutch collective agreement and labor laws evades
will be dealt with severely. The labor inspectorates in Europe more closely together to subcontractors who
employees and sell merchandise to address. Through a licensing requirement for agencies we promote the surveillance - and we fight abuses.
4. We deal with segregation, by putting much more in mixed neighborhoods and mixed schools.
We want children to go to school together and not separately. We help schools and municipalities as
much and as quickly as possible to get mixed schools. They make a plan to do so, with better information to parents about the school choice, a fixed login time for children and maximizing
educational contributions. Where can we work with dual registration lists, for students and
without delay.

13

NEW CONFIDENCE

5. The market in the integration we stop and the planned commercialization of adult beginning we disagree. Integration is customization, close to home, in the neighborhood. The
Education Inspectorate monitors the quality. Oldcomers over 55 may be, but need not
to take part in integration. Integration is free for those who adhere to the agreements made schooling. We delete the civic integration examination abroad for marriage and family migrants.
6. Children of migrants are more than average unemployment. We're going to smarten up, in collaboration with social partners and schools. Failure in education is challenged by intensive
accompaniment. Students who need to get practical lessons. All students must
internship and complete their education.

ASYLUM
7. If we reduce abuses elsewhere, also need fewer people forced to flee their country. International solidarity and cooperation for the prevention and elimination of conflicts
therefore, of the utmost importance. This includes stopping the harmful for poor countries
policy of our government and our businesses.
8. Netherlands intensifies aid to European countries at the external border of the European Union
ensuring manageable migration, respecting the rights of refugees. However, we will also ask in Europe more of the countries that receive our support. With countries outside
EU we will agree to stop the passage of thousands of migrants on their way to
Europe.
9. Where possible asylum seekers are received in the region. Netherlands while offering generous assistance, including in the form of capacity building. Asylum seekers arrived in the Netherlands
always entitled to a humane shelter. Asylum seekers get fast clarity about their future. At a
decision on their residence permit takes into account the (political) situation in the country
of origin and the individual circumstances of the applicant. They are refugees and not
criminals - and should therefore not be treated as such. Asylum seekers are allowed to work for
make themselves useful to society and provide for their maintenance.
10. Under no circumstances may asylum seekers are detained in detention centers if there is no valid reason
for it. Only if a specific date of departure is established, the shortest possible period of detention may be justified. In addition, use as much as possible alternatives, such as
limited secure shelter - it can also work effectively to return.
11. Asylum seekers who are not recognized as refugees and who have been identified as no protection
need, belong to return. Failed asylum seekers hold the right to care as long as
they are actively preparing their return. Who outside of his debt our country can not
leave is not put on the street and get a temporary residence permit. As long return
is impossible, it can be converted into permanent residency. The fault statement applies more generous. Municipalities have the right to provide emergency shelter, the
Reich thus ensures financial resources. The criminalization of illegal residence will be abolished again.
12. The family reunification procedure can be relaxed for refugees, by abolishing the statutory criterion of 'virtual belonging to a family' and refugees three months nareis-term more
to handle.
13. Victims of trafficking have the right to permanent residency and maximum
protection if they are willing to testify against those who have traded them. Victims
another way to cooperate in investigation and prosecution of traffickers come in all

14

YOUR COUNTRY, YOUR CHOICE

be eligible for a temporary permit. Human trafficking is harder fought, with eye
the underlying causes and possible solutions.
14. Everyone has the right to necessary medical care. Failed asylum seekers and uninsured
Homeless therefore should not be excluded from medical help.
15. Psychological care is improved to asylum seekers, both at entry and at possible return. It takes into account conditions on a psychological level when an applicant is not in
able to tell a coherent story. Psychological problems can not be dismissed
merely as a means of pressure to obtain a residence permit. There will also be more attention to the
psycho-medical effects of asylum procedures in children.
16. The Netherlands will adhere strictly to the International Convention on Children's Rights.
Temporary custody should never in children. Children themselves build residence rights. Children
more than five years in the Netherlands can not be returned. We support the Children's Pardon. The juvenile court now looks whether a minor in the country of origin can be
captured

15

NEW CONFIDENCE

photo Arie Kievit / Holland Height ©

16

SECURITY IN CRISIS TIME

4. SECURITY IN CRISIS TIME

Especially in times of economic uncertainty, we need to offer people social security. That's good for the
cohesion in society. It is not useful to raise the retirement age and the elderly are already not
the work coming and youth unemployment grows. It is bad to reduce the protection from dismissal
people are fired en masse. It is uncivilized to fire people in the sheltered workshop if you
know they have nowhere else to go. Social security is not a problem, it is just for a solution
problems. If you are sick, you lose or older work. Social security is not a cost, but the
basic health of our society.
Growing income inequality is socially unjustifiable and leads to poorer economic performance.
We help people out of poverty and to work. The purchasing power of minimum income
we enhance the rights of pensioners we continue to respect. People with temporary contracts and
self-employed (self-employed), we offer more protection. Municipalities will have more opportunities to help people find work. The work of people in the social workshop we are going to keep,
entrepreneurs who employ people with disabilities in employment will we reward. We take measures to
prevent young people growing up in poverty and people have to live on the food bank.

OUR PROPOSALS
1. The retirement age will remain at least until 2020 maintained at 65 years. Working longer is already
attractive. The social partners make binding agreements about how people over 65 at the
stroke can continue, to increase the workforce and reduce the pressure on the welfare system. Part-time work for the elderly, also in combination with retirement and pension, more attractive
created. A durable and sustainable pensions should be guaranteed. People who are 65
and reasonably come to the end of working life due to heavy work or long
employment history, after 2020 may also stop working, even if it is decided that the general
pension age goes up. Social partners will join with the government, a social contract.
The government creates sufficient financial scope to make this agreement.
2. Much more effective than raising the retirement age is to reduce unemployment
elderly people under 65 years. Too many older people lose their jobs and get few
working their 65th birthday. Thus we lose a lot of knowledge and skills. Great failure of elderly
employees also would cause the cost of social security. Social partners are therefore
asked to make binding commitments to significantly greater participation of older workers. By arranging for hiring personnel for a better reflection of
the age structure of the labor force, or by promoting the transfer of knowledge by younger and
older workers smart linking. Automatic dismissal with 65 disappears, leaving
working longer becomes easier.
3. We recognize the important role played by social partners in the socio-economic organization of our
country. Without their support is good policy not possible. The social partners therefore have plenty of space
to conclude a new social contract for the end of 2013. It is a coherent package

17

NEW CONFIDENCE

proposed for employment, income, social security and pensions - among the
precondition of financial feasibility. In this social contract in any case agreements
created on combating youth unemployment, to keep working and getting older
employees and providing a good and sustainable state pension and pension provision.
4. Youth unemployment is bad for our young people and harmful to our society. Government
ensures that every young person under 27 years may work or go to school without losing their
lose social rights. School dropout is challenged by intensive support and - for them
who need - practical lessons. Courses take more account of the anticipated demand for labor, including by promoting technical education in VMBO,
MBO and HBO. There will be a better match between education and business. Business
more initiatives are being sought for training and education, training and retraining of (future)
staff.
5. Combating poverty is best done by providing decent work at decent pay,
preventing unemployment and an inclusive social security system. By early relief
to offer as poverty threatens greater misery can often be avoided. Municipalities more
ways to prevent and combat poverty, to reorganize debts and avoid
children growing up in poverty. The money for municipal poverty reduction and debt must also actually be used there. The statutory limit
up to 110 per cent of the social minimum to be admitted into the minimum policy
extended to 120 percent. This allows more people to participate in municipal regulations
and facilities and cultural and sports activities.
6. The home key is deleted on welfare. Working retain their benefits with a training period of three months is still possible, for example if there is a placement. Who with
a dividend, of decent work, now also receives a full salary.
7. The purchasing power of minimum income we raise. Is the social minimum
increased the minimum wage we protect. Who works power to get at least
the statutory minimum wage. As a salary supplement is necessary wage subsidies can be deployed. The minimum wage for young people aged 18 are eventually brought into line with the minimum wage.
8. The flexibility of the labor market has gone too far and is limited. People with temporary contracts and other forms of precarious employment (temporary workers, call contracts, zero-hour contracts) gain
therefore more right to a fixed contract. Will require permits for temporary employment agencies. The
is made impossible that employers responsible for people who work for them
can avoid, like 'payroll', where staff employed comes from a company, but works
at another company. Even people with temporary contracts be entitled to severance pay.
Piecework, such as postmen, we do not accept.
9. Self-employed without employees (self-employed) which are doing work which is mainly done in person within their sector, we now bring to social security. The employer who gives them job pays pension contributions and premiums for disability.
10. We uphold the dismissal. The duration of unemployment benefit (WW) is not shortened. Employers the first half year of unemployment leave pay is often impossible due to lack
money in the company. This also promotes hiring people on temporary contracts. The obligation to seek the unemployed depending on the individual circumstances and perspectives
at work.
11. The legal status of civil servants working for the public good, will continue to provide protection against
political arbitrariness.

18

SECURITY IN CRISIS TIME

12. The Inspectorate of Social Affairs and Labour will be called again. The Labour helps recruiters
the creation of safe and healthy working conditions. She grabs hard at dangerous
working conditions, low pay, exploitation and violation of laws and collective labor agreements (CAOs).
13. The independence of the occupational and health and safety services will be restored. Absenteeism finds
under the responsibility of an independent company doctors. All workers have a right to
Access to the company.
14. Victims of occupational accidents and often put an agony off to their right to
get. We speed up procedures to do justice. Imposed by a court or by the parties
agreed compensation be paid by the government, which will then pay the damages stories.
15. Controlling pension henceforth consist of one third of employees, employers and third
1/3 of representatives of pensioners.
16. Pension funds may not count on it, but also do not need to rely arm. Now interest rates
are artificially low threaten pensions to be reduced. It is not necessary.
17. We put a stop to top incomes. Administrators in the public and semi-public sector
earn no more than the minister. Bonuses at banks and other financial institutions
completely eliminated. We encourage social partners to undertake a proper business
to implement policies and not paying ridiculously high salaries and bonuses. We choose in the public
and semi-public sector for a baseline for salaries above twice the average.
18. We support the efforts of trade unions to bring all employees under the company collective labor agreements, so
a link will be counteracted between the highest and lowest incomes and divide.
The generally binding collective agreements remains.
19. Employers will help pay a contribution to the implementation of employee insurance.
The burden of ill personnel by paying for small businesses distributed more fairly.
20. The tasks are product and industry boards, as appropriate, adopted by the
government and union parties.
21. We accept no wage discrimination between men and women. To give women equal opportunities to work, pay disparities are addressed. There will be more opportunities to work
and combine care for mothers and fathers.
22. Social workshops continue in the future to offer sheltered employment for people with disabilities.
Social workshops provide meaningful work for a fair wage. Good guidance and adjustment
The work on the limit given priority. Where possible and appropriate we encourage outflows to
regular work, but do not force people to work below the minimum wage.
23. There is an end to large-scale commercial reintegration practices. Municipalities can
Reintegration do much better in-house. For specific groups that need special counseling
have, municipalities can enable services of specialized companies.
24. Municipalities will have more opportunities to establish local training companies for people
who (still) can not find work and training to gain practical experience at a fair wage. The
local training companies, people who do not directly own power a regular job
can get a public job offer at a fair wage. Municipalities will have more possibilities to set conditions in tenders for jobs for job seekers.

19

NEW CONFIDENCE

25. Municipalities are responsible for a comprehensive safety net of care for homeless
homeless, assisted living spaces and work projects. Discharge from a psychiatric or correctional institution is linked to care and support.
26. Young people with disabilities receive adequate guidance and support in finding a job.
Mentoring and job coaches are used for a smooth transition from the practical
primary and secondary education to the labor market. Social entrepreneurship is stimulated.
27. Employers who employ people with disabilities are entitled to wage subsidies and other amenities.
28. Childcare should be affordable and of good quality. Better monitoring of the relief and parents more rights and more say in the quality and cost of childcare. Childcare Organisations are regularly inspected and the inspectors of advice
municipal or communal health services (GGD) by the municipalities
observed.

29. People with debts are more and better help. Debt Relief workers must therefore comply
quality requirements. The government supervises them. Fraud is detected active. Money Loan Complaints
we shall not permit. Easy credit in shops be curbed. The seizure free
foot is respected, loan assistance is abolished. Measures are taken to prevent people who are imprisoned because of a penalty following their imprisonment
still sitting with fines.
30. The government and large companies should employ more people with a disability or partial disability and organizing appropriate internships. Therefore we make a
legislation.

20

CARE IS NO MARKET

5. CARE IS NO MARKET

On average, we live longer and healthier. But that will not happen automatically and that is not for everyone. If you're sick
or have a disability, you should be able to rely on good health care. Then you should have no fear
hospitals and healthcare facilities conceal problems for the interests of commercial investors. Or
that you suffered is sold to a broadcaster. If you need help you yourself do not have to worry about
your care package or your health care provider. The introduction of market forces hospitals and healthcare facilities become more widespread and doctors and nurses have less time for their patients. Also is
care has become more expensive. Employees are hoorndol the unnecessary bureaucracy. People who
need care and they provide that care are key, everything else is secondary.
We want to organize the care no longer on competition between providers and hospitals, but through cooperation and a regional health care budget, based on the need for care. We are going to make more close and
organize on a human scale. Wasteful bureaucracy and disposing of medications and tools we deal with. The financing of health care equitably distributed so that people with lower
Income can always count on good help. Administrators and insurers have less to say about
healthcare - patients, doctors and nurses all the more. We come up with an offensive to prevent
people from becoming ill. That's why we invest more in prevention. Because prevention is better than cure - and
eventually also much cheaper.

OUR PROPOSALS
1. We invest more in healthcare. And prevention should be in the package. Prevention is better than cure
and, ultimately, cost savings.
2. We will not increase the deductibles in health care, but rather decrease sharply. As soon as the financial
may we eliminate the excess. Not the thickness of the wallet, but the need for
care must be decisive.
3. The market in healthcare is counterproductive and is therefore stopped - and reversed over time. Profit distributions to capital lead to wrong incentives and we point
Therefore off; distribution of profits in the hospital is therefore not implemented. Privatization of the
ambulance we reject.
4. Care is funded through regional health budgets. Everything in the (cheaper) first line
can be done, there is also done. The evening, night and weekend GP care and
the emergency department of hospitals are better coordinated, so everyone go there
can.
5. We take care premiums fully means tested. Earnings up to a threshold amount (franchise)
about the minimum income be exempted here. In conjunction therewith, the care allowance
be abolished. This is a bureaucratic circus of pumping money unnecessarily terminated.

21

NEW CONFIDENCE

6. We rely on the professional autonomy and professional pride of the employees in health care. Performance-based and variable remuneration (bonus medicine) do not fit in there. Doctors working in
employment. By improved working conditions, we can win more people for the care and
existing employees longer.
7. Harassment and intimidation of health workers not be tolerated. Employers always report
against perpetrators. Aftercare for victims is available.
8. The salaries of directors and managers of hospitals and health care institutions are under a
cao brought and should certainly not exceed a minister salary. To wanpresterende drivers
to better address the legal options are expanded.
9. We work to systematic downsizing in health care, closer. We choose as many
possible care in the area, with community health centers, dispensaries and health centers. We also offer home care as much as possible at the community level, as well as nursing, care and daytime activities.
People with dementia have a fixed contact, a single person who arranges things for them (case manager).
10. In the care introduces a fusion stop. Mergers are assessed under which only quality reasons may be decisive to allow the merger. We retain full regional hospital care, including obstetrics.
11. People who need it can continue to count on a personal budget (PGB). At
Applications for health care will first consider whether the regular care can help people properly. To
to ensure quality and prevent fraud, all providers who also provide care PGB
provide care in kind.
12. The free rates for dental care be reversed, to unnecessary cost and
To prevent self-enrichment by dentists and suppliers.
13. Crawl sure we go against. Priority will be given in care for other than medical reasons is not
allowed.
14. Instead of the EMEA to undress, we will transform the care service packages to better forms of payment, based on demand for care, staffing and environment requirements. Municipalities more
influence on the organization of care, without which we transfer caring.
15. We build only small-scale nursing home locations. In receive nursing care
the elderly the right to independent living and privacy, having them customized care and facilities.
Palliative care in nursing homes, hospices and home care is expanded.
16. We hold of the bureaucracy in the care. Indications are not done through cumbersome bureaucratic bodies (such as the Care Assessment Centre, CIZ) but by general practitioners and nurses in the district. There are fewer managers in healthcare and more hands to the bed. Wasted
medicines and tools we counteract. The bureaucratic system of diagnosis treatment combinations (DBC) disappears.
17. The personal contribution for the second-line mental health care we turn back.
18. The mental health focus, except for healing, especially on prevention and social recovery
of people with mental illnesses. To prevent people on the streets without care languish or be a danger to themselves or others should be a temporary forced hospitalization and
treatment are possible.

22

SECURITY IN CRISIS TIME

19. The health insurance companies are going public law and regional work. One is health care
regional solely responsible for adequate care.
20. The powers and Inspection clout for Healthcare expanded.
21. There will be a licensing system for private clinics, to avoid abuses and risky
treatments.
22. The closure of obstetrics wards in hospitals can lead to dangerous situations for mother and child. Good obstetric care is one close to mother and child to be offered. To
infant mortality to occur, we offer more guidance before, during and after pregnancy.
23. We oppose the socioeconomic health inequalities. The public health system is a
government task: healthy behavior should be encouraged, environmental factors may be changed
and GPs and district nurses more effective prevention in disadvantaged neighborhoods. Reduction
health disparities we laid down by law as a goal of policy. Take herein fits
measures to moderate alcohol consumption and tobacco use reduction.
24. There will be a medical injury Patient Fund from which a rapid compensation for the damage
damage can be paid. In this way, complicated procedures are avoided, as well as
the dragging by insurers.
25. Aggressive marketing and influencing research by the pharmaceutical industry, we tackle
to, by strengthening the inspection and an independent research fund. That counts also for
tools and also for oral care. For aggressive lobbying practices we put in a fine.
26. The purchase of prescription we arrange through rural central purchasing by health insurers. So we can make competitive pricing agreements and make hefty cuts. And for
all prescription drugs available. Pharmacists Bonuses and rebates disappear. We
efforts to establish a subscription system for the pharmacist with registration in the name of
patients, similar to the GP. An annual check of medicine composition for elderly
people and people is introduced using more than five kinds of medicines.
27. We perform the active donor registration system in order to increase the number of potential organ donors
and thereby save lives.
28. Patients movement gives a voice to people with (chronic) illness or disability. There comes
sustainable funding that does justice to the diversity of the patient.
29. While public transportation is not accessible to people with disabilities remains above the regional transport 'Valys' existence.
30. The national electronic patient record (EPR) has been canceled. We do encourage good and safe
ICT solutions to regional data exchange between GPs, pharmacists and primary care, with privacy and security are guaranteed.
31. The Dutch Healthcare Authority has to prove himself by standing up more for the patient and less to serve the interests of the (large) organizations. For the Dutch Competition Authority
no place in healthcare. The possible penalty on cooperation paralyzing for care.
32. Taping, isolating or drugging of people in a care setting is not allowed. Only under
strict conditions, an exception to be made. When there is forced
care, this should be reported, reviewed by an independent commission and only short-lived
to be. Here is the Health Inspectorate sharply increasing.

23

NEW CONFIDENCE

33. Lifestyle Intervention is not patronizing, but can prevent chronic diseases in the future. We
focusing on significantly fewer young people taking up smoking and drinking, we also encourage quitting
smoking in order to avoid lung diseases. Combating obesity in general and among young people in
specifically, get extra attention. Along with the food we come up with initiatives to
reducing sugar, salt and fat in our food.
34. People who work in health care should not fall prey to mandatory flexibility. For personnel who sits with complaints about the quality of care or the working conditions there will be an independent whistleblower scheme. Harassment of healthcare workers dealt with firmly.
35. Municipal care is strengthened, people who earn working in the home care
a better salary. To ensure that we use the potential of the law Leijten /
Kant real base rates in the WMO and we go a minimal concern for valuing FWG15
household carers legislate. Money that municipalities receive for caring they give
not to other matters.
36. Carers and volunteers get more support. Home care is allocated more generous and
respite care is extended. We make the construction of care homes on private property possible
let care greatly involved in the allocation of housing. It is also for carers
possible care record.

24

photo Arie Kievit / Holland Height ©

25

NEW CONFIDENCE

photo David Rozing / Holland Height ©

26

CRIMINALS PICKING, PROTECTING CITIZENS

6. CRIMINALS PICKING,
PROTECTING CITIZENS

Our society has become tougher. By increasing selfishness, less ethics and growing inequality.
Each year too many people in our country is the victim of a form of crime. We not only want
criminals are punished effectively, but also to help victims better. The society
increasingly appeals to law enforcement. Then we must be willing to invest more in
our agents and our judiciary. More police on the streets leads to more security in the area. Decisive acting judges and rapid implementation of penalties imposed to help confidence in the
increase judicial apparatus. Criminals do not we just go punishment but also "pick" because crime
may never financially wages.
Police officers we give more colleagues and better working conditions. We will also cut unnecessary
bureaucracy and invest in exploration. Prisons should not be training for young
criminals, which is why we invest in qualified prison staff. We address addiction and mental health problems of prisoners and better prepare them for their return to society, to new
To avoid nuisance and crime; which saves victims. White-collar crime we go faster
approaches. Access to justice for people with lower incomes is guaranteed.

OUR PROPOSALS
POLICE
1. Safety deserves priority. Therefore there are more agents and better working conditions in the
police. Agents hear especially at home on the street and not behind a desk. We invest in extra police capacity, which we also strengthen the investigation. We cut unnecessary bureaucracy. Also
we stop tinkering with working hours.
2. The introduction of the national police must not be detrimental to the control of municipalities
on the local safety. With small police posts around we bring closer the police
to home. Community police officers we put no more in other policing, their place is in the neighborhood. Always
policing are done more often by special investigators or private security guards
without proper training and qualifications. Police let us not indulge in private security. Special investigators, many more eyes and ears of the regular police.
3. We will start a campaign to recruit more volunteers for the fire department. Firefighters gain
more participation: both in the workplace and in the safety region, where important decisions about the
fire department to be taken. No fire stations are being closed as it comes at the expense
the fire safety and the quality of the fire fighting. We stop experimenting with less
people on fire trucks.
4. The eight largest clusters of companies with high security risk (according to the Decree Risks
Severe Accidents, BRZO) have a common professional fire service, where
all companies are connected required on site.

27

NEW CONFIDENCE

5. Attacks on police officers, firefighters and other public aid workers is always addressed with firm penalties and fines.
6. We want the number of weapons pension greatly reduce, laying its sale to stricter tires and illegal possession of it tackle hard. Therefore the police pays more attention
the control of arms licenses and weapons possession.
7. There is sufficient capacity within the police and the Public Prosecution Service to take all returns pending. The opportunities to make an anonymous report to be improved. Police and Public
Ministry must keep victims informed how does their thing. Offenders must pay
for the damage suffered by their victims. Imposed by a court damages
be advanced by the government, which then collects the money from the offender.
8. For complex issues such as child pornography, cyber crime, environmental crime, trafficking and sexual offenses get police, prosecution and judges sufficient knowledge and expertise. Pimps ("lover boys") are dealt with harshly, even if there is no declaration of criminal acts done - for example,
because the victim did not dare this.

JUSTICE
9. People with little money should be able to obtain justice. This requires an open system
of legal aid. Court fees are not increased.
10. We welcome the recent laws that allow it to revise verdicts become final
if there is a possible judicial blunders. Establishing an independent Revision Council remains
however, necessary.
11. Fraud greater priority, even for acquisition and bankruptcies. The capacity and expertise
the police and the Public Prosecution Service to be expanded and also the judiciary gets more expertise. Because crime should never pay is always dirty money 'plucked' from criminals. Previously
more financial investigators needed, which more than pay for themselves.
12. White-collar criminals inflict great damage to society and will therefore punish hard.
13. There will be better informed about the consequences of alcohol and drug use to young people and their
parents.
14. The sale and cultivation of cannabis for the Dutch market is legalized and regulated to
nuisance and crime combat. This can also control the quality and information
to be improved. We do not need a weed pass. Sales and production of hard drugs
remain punishable.
15. Prohibited Area and notification obligations may help to ward temporary nuisance to people and away
keep in the vicinity of their victims.
16. Prisons are not privatized. Locking up criminals remains a government responsibility. In the
prison inmates perform as much as possible useful work for society. The money
which thus can be earned is saved partly mandatory for crime victims.
17. In prisons will be more attention to the rehabilitation of prisoners, right after starting
detention. Here we begin addressing addiction and psychosocial problems. Serious
mentally disturbed prisoners belong to a secure psychiatric hospital. Ex-prisoners receive better guidance on their return to society. The bureaucracy at the
probation we are going to attack a lot.

28

CRIMINALS PICKING, PROTECTING CITIZENS

18. Youth Prisons ought to be a breeding ground for young criminals. They are now very expensive and
not effective in reducing recidivism. Youth prisons are there only for the most serious
offenses. There is more use of alternative penalties that are effective, such as behavioral therapy and forms in which the family is involved. Minors are tried under
the juvenile justice system. The Dutch reservations about Article 40 of the International Covenant on
the rights of the child (right to legal representation for juveniles) is repealed.
19. The Dutch Data Protection Authority gets more sanctions and fines should be higher
can impose if there is a breach of privacy. At European level we advocate
abolition of the fingerprint in the passport.
20. proposals to limit citizens' privacy, we can only agree if the effectiveness and
the necessity of these measures have been proven.
21. The Internet is a new source of income for many criminals. We go much more active role
against all forms of cybercrime. We are going to combat illegal gambling on the Internet.
22. Discrimination against gay men, lesbians, bisexuals, transsexuals, etc. not be tolerated. Violence against
them is always recorded and addressed by law enforcement.
23. More attention is needed to prevent domestic violence and honor killings.
24. Terrorism must be combated effectively through better international cooperation
intelligence and tracing and freezing of sources of financing of terrorist organizations. And by addressing the structural causes of terrorism (such as poverty, oppression and hate speech). To further European directives that restrict our privacy, we have no
need.

29

NEW CONFIDENCE

photo Paul van Riel / Dutch © Height

30

INVESTING IN KNOWLEDGE AND EDUCATION

7. INVESTMENT IN KNOWLEDGE AND EDUCATION

Especially in times of crisis, we must invest in better education. That is the best way to get the economy and our
to make society permanent stronger. Children with an impairment or disability risk losing their appropriate education. Students who want to learn a trade get lost in big leather factories. Students see that
their study is likely to be priceless. Therefore we limit the ability of young people to their
future into their own hands. Directors of educational institutions watching too much money and figures and
like the teachers and the students lost sight of. This has led to high rewards for managers but poor qualifications for students.
We will not enter zero for employees in the education and no performance fee. We'll go
work at smaller schools and smaller classes so that students and teachers, the parents and school
can form community. We limit the power of school directors. Children in need
can count on special education. Vocational education takes place in small vocational schools, where youngsters
taught by practitioners. We do not fumble the student and the basic grant and take
measures to ensure the independence of scientific research.

OUR PROPOSALS
1. We will invest more in education and abandon the zero line for teachers. We do not fiddle
the student and the basic grant. The fine for 'long-term students' will be abolished. We also want
more time for education and less money and time wasted on bureaucracy and rule drift. School Managers
also going to teach yourself. There is no incentive for teachers.
2. Quality education requires qualified teachers. Unqualified teachers get within two years of their competence.
Teachers eventually have a master's degree - except for practice teachers. Level
of teacher training goes up. Teachers salaries we set nationwide tight, we cut back on the
number of education managers.
3. We carry a maximum class size for primary education. Gradually comes to every elementary school extra support, such as through school caretakers or teaching assistants. We also put
our swim school for every child.
4. We start in 2013 an investment program to help our economy back on track, including investments in schools and universities.
5. It is important to language and educational detect as early as possible. Employees in
nurseries and schools are trained.
6. Schools are no key factories, we do not mandatory CITO test in primary schools. There
will pay more attention to the formative role in education, for example through more hours
citizenship or civics. The subject teachers must return to primary education.

31

NEW CONFIDENCE

7. Thanks to a merger test new schools fusions are tested severely. To encourage downsizing we ensure that schools have the opportunity to step out of a large school board. We boost
construction of small schools, for example through additional financial support.
8. The cuts in the so-called 'appropriate education' be reversed. For pupils
with a disorder or disability at all levels, special education should be available. Money for
needs pupils is devoted to counseling, not on other things.
9. We will reform the inspectorate. Inspectors have enough time to visit schools
Instead of keeping paper with busy.
10. Youth unemployment is bad for our young people and harmful to our society. Government
ensures that every young person under 27 years may work or go to school without losing their
lose social rights. School dropout is challenged by intensive support and - for them
who need - practical lessons. Courses take more account of the anticipated demand for labor, including by promoting technical education in VMBO,
MBO and HBO. There will be a better match between education and business. Business
more initiatives are being sought for training and education, training and retraining of (future)
staff.
11. Drop in secondary and vocational education we tackle by intensive support.
12. Pupils in secondary education and secondary vocational education should be able to flow smoothly. Barriers to "stacking" (eg VMBO to HAVO and VWO) we clean up. And pupils
thereby be helped, we offer practical education in small vocational schools.
13. There is a shortage of skilled technical staff. We therefore encourage young people to technical
to undergo training at the secondary and higher education. We also would like to see the first
two years of vocational merged with vocational schools, creating a vocational school for six years
becomes possible.
14. end of the Intermediate level will be set centrally and there are national examinations. Great
Vocational schools are encouraged to split up.
15. The number of training places will increase. Small business owners will have the opportunity to be a Recognized
Apprenticeship Master to be. They will be well supported by the school. Thus, more training places available, especially for the target groups MBO level 1 and 2 and for students from
practical and special education.
16. There will be a public transport pass for 16 and 17 year olds in the MBO.
17. HBO is better supervised the final level. Where possible, we conduct nationwide
exams. We stop the perverse diploma bonus, because quality comes before efficiency. Great
colleges are encouraged to split up. We do not want mergers between higher vocational schools and
universities. A master gives you in college, not on HBO.
18. In higher education, we are focusing on more small-scale programs with intensive supervision. We
refraining from the performance agreements with institutions be judged on the number of diplomas that
they issue.
19. Schools show which part of the budget actually reaches in education. If necessary
we apply a maximum rate of bureaucracy.

32

INVESTING IN KNOWLEDGE AND EDUCATION

20. The unnecessary subsidies to organizations such as the HBO Council, the MBO Council, the Secondary Education Council and the PO council
we abolish.
21. wanpresterende drivers to better address are the legal options
expanded. They may also hold any new teaching positions. In education one deserves
more than one minister.
22. Research is being done on a new governance in education. The aim is curbing the power of directors, downsizing and reducing red tape.
An experiment is being conducted with the budget goes to schools directly instead of going to the
school board.
23. Illiteracy (functional illiteracy) we tackle better. Thus we help much
people who often have problems to get along in society. We also maintain more
take into account people who are not (properly) working with the Internet, especially the elderly. Education
adults remain public and accessible to everyone.
24. To improve accessibility for students from families with low income, we increase
supplementary grant. A feudal system we do not need, because pupils and students
here no interest in. The tuition for the second study is not increased, but equal to the statutory tuition.
25. Sponsorship and advertising do not belong in schools. Older Contributions should be subject to a ceiling and everyone should know that payment is not compulsory but voluntary.
26. We have an interest in more independent scientific research. We want more money for
make available. Sponsors and researchers henceforth abide by the Code of Conduct
for independent research of the Royal Dutch Academy of Sciences (KNAW).
Fundamental research is promoted, we oppose the trend that scientists
increasingly need to focus on research has a direct economic benefit.
27. All students have a right acceptance, provided that the parents respect the character of the school.
All schools have a duty to accept.
28. Discrimination is prohibited by the constitution. Refusal of teachers and pupils along ethnic lines,
skin color or sexual preference we do not tolerate.
29. Municipalities remain responsible for the construction and maintenance of school buildings.
The funding for school buildings continue to run through the municipalities.
30. We help schools and municipalities to get as much and as quickly as possible mixed schools, with
children from different backgrounds. They make a plan to do so, with better information to parents
about school choice, a fixed login time for children and maximizing the educational contributions. Where can we work with dual registration lists, for students with and without delay.

33

NEW CONFIDENCE

photo David Rozing / Holland Height ©

34

A BEAUTIFUL LAND AND VIABLE

8. A BEAUTIFUL COUNTRY AND VIABLE

Our country has a long tradition of social housing. Due to bad political decisions, failing
oversight and too ill-market, a number of housing corporations to behave as
real estate company. We encourage corporations to take more responsibility for the construction and maintenance of affordable housing for people on low and middle income. And to invest more in the
livability of the neighborhood. For us, near the scale of the future. By adjusting the mortgage we bring the housing market into better balance. And we put an end to the costly
grant villas of people who can do without the subsidy. Cottage Melkers be dealt with harshly.
The construction is important for the Netherlands but for profiteers is no more. However, for more innovation and sustainable construction. With many people in a small space Netherlands has a strong tradition of business
as well as possible to adapt. But that tradition is under pressure: long ribbons with offices and businesses
Hemming highways, the Green Heart is attacked on all sides and municipalities are heavily stabbing
in debt by excessive activity on the land market. Expensive villas jostle caravans and campsites
and people are left uncertain about the use of homes. In some places
shortage of space, other parts of the Netherlands in danger just to deflate.

OUR PROPOSALS
BUILD AND LIVE
1. The mortgage interest is capped at ten years for mortgage debt up to 350,000 euros.
The rate at which can be deducted is capped at 42 percent. So we worry
ensure that the subsidy is effectively weather and villa subsidy disappears. The repayment of mortgage debt is encouraged.
2. The transfer tax is in connection therewith gradually down to two percent. For starters
in the housing market will be a temporary start-up allowance to pull the housing market.
3. As part of a stimulus package for the economy is a significant amount available
For housing associations, in order to accelerate the construction of low-cost rental housing and increase. This
resources for housing associations are only available in return for concrete accountable agreements on the construction of low-cost rental housing. Demolition of social housing is restricted
laid.
4. Control of the tenants of the corporations is strengthened. They have a statutory right of initiative, which they can ask the landlord to reasonable measures (such as
take fire or sound insulation measures) at a reasonable rent increase. Large corporations that can be cut up underperforming. The property division for social housing is evaluated and - where possible - improved.

35

NEW CONFIDENCE

5. There is no additional five per cent rent increase for incomes above 43,000 euros. The performance of
housing benefit is improved by the tax authorities. The rent protection is extended
from 650 euros to 850 euros. Rents must not grow faster than annual inflation.
6. Housing associations are reluctant to sell homes. Rental properties can be up for sale a year, then they are available for sale again. The affordability of
houses for starters we increase by giving a discount on the sale of housing association homes in
Combined with a buy-back arrangement to resale ("socially bound ownership).
7. Municipalities and housing associations make in consultation with tenants organizations performance agreements on new construction, maintenance of housing and the quality of life in the neighborhood. It also stipulates that adequate social housing units remain available. We want affordable housing for
elderly in existing neighborhoods so that people in later life can remain in their own neighborhood.
8. The so-called "Donner Points" will be removed, allowing the flow on the rental market
will attract and the more attractive areas are accessible for anyone better. The border
from 34.000 euro as income requirement for social housing to be undone by
To adapt to European agreements.
9. There will be more monitoring of the trade in real estate or land by housing associations. Any
damages resulting from real estate transactions we recover from the directors of the corporation.
10. Wherever housing shortage, municipalities will combat vacancy. Cracking and Vacancy Act
being reviewed and updated. The maximum term for temporary rental will be reversed to five
years.
11. The government encourages sustainable and energy efficient construction and renovation. Building permits
existing buildings will be issued only if the building meets minimum energy D.
Housing corporations go requires more work on the thermal insulation of existing homes.
The notional rental value decreases as the energy is better.
12. Collective complex targeted approach to major maintenance and energy savings in areas with a lot
Home ownership is promoted.
13. Municipalities are responsible for a comprehensive safety net of care for homeless
homeless, assisted living spaces and work projects. Discharge from a psychiatric or correctional institution is linked to care and support.
14. People who before October 31, 2003 permanently from their recreation use were given a
personal exemption to stay there. In other cases nationwide line drawn.
15. The preventive test on the Building (in the building permit) will be abolished and replaced by
a legal guarantee. Thus the buyer knows for sure that the home they are buying meets the statutory requirements.
16. The Decree is simplified. For the 80 percent simple projects there will be a simplified building regulations; For the 15 percent of projects in the mid-market, the current situation
maintained; 5 percent for the most complex projects is a national knowledge center
customization.
17. There will be a four-yearly MOT for home installations, combined with the periodic maintenance of the heating system.

36

A BEAUTIFUL LAND AND VIABLE

18. Good housing is not without good workers. The financing of education is improved for workers, which is also self-employed, employment agencies and foreign contractors go
paying into the education system. This may also make use of these construction workers
training services.

TOWN AND COUNTRY
19. The government takes control of the sustainable spatial development of our country for good
distribution of housing and nature, economy and recreation. This prevents the landscape beyond
fragmented and cluttered. The government takes more control in the construction of wind farms.
20. We are taking measures to prevent the disappearance of small shops in the structural
shopping facilities. This structure plan also should provide guidance on the location and size
non-food retail locations (such as furniture boulevards) with a catchment area of ​​20 kilometers
Lake.
21. Housing construction takes place mostly in and around the urban centers (infill), between which sufficient
green, remains open space.
22. We fight land speculation. The added value of the land as a result of the change
destination henceforth supposed to benefit the community.
23. We address the vacancy rate of offices, warehouses and shops. Through tax incentives, regional
land policy, vacancy regulations and thoughtful management of industrial estates, we ensure that
buildings and areas are being redeveloped. We stop with the tax treatment of
vacancy.
24. We want to maintain as much work as possible in the shrinking areas. Together with municipalities in shrinking regions is actively searching for new strategies to amenities such as shops, schools, healthcare facilities, the municipal service and keep the library accessible even for people who have no car
have.
25. Shrinking Regions have particular problems, but also offer new opportunities. Provinces guard it
Municipalities in shrinking regions to make joint planning for the construction and demolition of homes,
offices and business and community so that they reinforce each other instead
to compete.
26. The legal protection of owner-occupiers is improved on leasehold land, by introducing
a legally mandatory model contract for new agreements. Existing ground lease contracts are converted at the time a property is sold.
27. The government will provide a wealth careful supervision and monument policy. It becomes mandatory
to areas in the vicinity of national monuments in an external appearance of buildings on municipal
to take. The policy of monuments belonging to the Empire with a primary heritage function off
bump stops put.
28. The project on cadastre information, coupled with real-property value of buildings, crime
real estate transactions to detect extended.
29. The Netherlands is a country of water. In spatial planning the existing water assessment is enhanced by
to set national standard demands on the content of the key. So we ensure that spatial
developments pose no risk in terms of water safety and lead as much as possible to
improve water quality.

37

NEW CONFIDENCE

30. One third of the major dikes and dams did not meet during the last inspection of the safety standards. Given the potential consequences of climate change, we want a maximum
12 years of the primary flood least comply with the 1960 safety standards.
31. Water safety and more nature may well go together: in many cases, nature can be used
or as a buffer overflow in times of flooding.
32. We make a plan for the North Sea where proper zoning Dutch
controlled part of the continental shelf. At least one third of the continental shelf will primarily a nature destination. That means there should be no fishing. Shared use of the area
for other functions is only permitted when the fish population does not suffer as.
33. sewage management (municipal task) and wastewater treatment (by the water) are merged into regional utilities. This results in considerable savings. In the longer term
these utilities could merge with the water companies in the region to broad public
water companies.
34. The improvement of water quality is mainly tackled at source, for example by reducing the use of pesticides and (artificial) fertilizer.
35. Recognised long-distance cycle routes and -wandelroutes be better protected, allowing them little traffic
and stay safe, valuable cultural landscapes along the routes will be retained and unwanted
spatial developments be avoided wherever possible.

38

GOOD TRANSPORTATION FOR EVERYONE

9. GOOD TRANSPORTATION FOR EVERYONE

Traffic jams and spotty public transportation are annoying for everyone and bad for the economy. A modern country worthy of modern, reliable, clean and fast modes of transport. We therefore take measures to better use the existing roads and railways. By car equipped with smart
communication and detection techniques and to introduce a modern security system allowing trains
poet can ride together. The government will itself take responsibility for public transport,
Therefore we add NS and ProRail together into a new public company. We stop the mandatory tendering of regional bus and train services and give governments the opportunity to own transport to
start.
We take measures for responsible growth in transport, but also for better air quality
and less noise pollution. By quieter vehicles and better shielding of roads and railways. But also
by encouraging alternative transportation: from road to rail and inland waterways or from car to bicycle. The polluter pays principle: taxes and charges are therefore less based on the possession and more on the use
and the environmental impact. Through a new vision of mobility, good planning policy, flexible working hours and the
promoting telecommuting, we can help to reduce traffic congestion.

OUR PROPOSALS
RAIL
1. NS and ProRail are part of a single public utility company. Thus strengthening cooperation
and prevent the companies operate alongside each other. The Minister of Infrastructure and the Environment
ultimately responsible for the quality of rail transport.
2. All domestic passenger rail is again part of a transport license.
Much clearer performance targets are defined in the concession of the train frequencies,
average speed, punctuality, safety and quality of service. In the first
next concession also stipulates that all trains have a toilet.
3. there is more money made available within the budget for infrastructure investments in regional
railway lines.
4. There will be a public transport pass for 16 and 17 year olds in the MBO.
5. There will be no commuter tax. The mandatory tender will be abolished in public transport.
Provinces and municipalities have the possibility to outsource the urban and regional transport by a private utility. There will be country-based agreements on the performance requirements in urban and
regional.

39

NEW CONFIDENCE

6. Missing sections are filled in the rail network with highway buses, which can also improve access to major business parks. There will be more attention to public
transport in sparsely populated areas, to prevent villages are only accessible by car.
7. Outside of rush hour, there are too many empty seats in public transport. By making more use of
cheap off-peak rates for groups, the utilization of capacity on trains and buses improved.
8. expire surcharge rate of Fyra high-speed train between Breda and Amsterdam, so that the billion investment in high-speed railway will bring more benefit to society.
9. The Benelux train between Amsterdam and Brussels continues to exist and the reliability and frequency of
this line is improved.
10. Public transport will deliver free and better current travel information.
11. The duties of TLS (the company behind the OV-chip card) will be hosted by the Ministry. The

OV chip card is simpler to use, the card will automatically calculate the cheapest fare,
double step tariff elimination and the tariff structure is adopted nationwide.
12. Individual data on the travel behavior of travelers should not be stored longer than
is necessary for the transport.
13. The planned intensification of the track through the IJssel Line, the line and the Twente Twente Line (Frequency Rail Programme) and we blow off.
14. Stations and trains are arranged so that people with disabilities are Distinction
can make.
15. The quality of pupil transport and taxi transport for people with disabilities will be better
secured. Local authorities may also choose to accommodate this activity into a utility.
16. We put an end to the Wild-West practices in the taxi market. The municipalities have the possibility to allow a maximum number of taxi companies. There are demands for the quality of the
taxi drivers.

ROAD TRANSPORT
17. We are cautious about the construction and widening of roads, but bottlenecks are naturally
addressed. Sometimes investments in the road network more effectively than expansion
highway network. This serves, therefore, to be considered in conjunction.
18. To improve the flow of traffic in and exploit the optimal road capacity we put
on automated traffic management and intelligent navigation systems.
19. The speed limit on roads is dynamically controlled, so the risk of congestion and reduces
better traffic flows. The travel time from door to door is more benefit from a steady, secure
at higher speed than maxima and greater speed differences.
20. Where the new speed limit (130km / h) a negative impact on air quality and noise
for local residents, or to road safety, it is reduced again. When the rings of the large
towns the speed limit is not increased.

40

GOOD TRANSPORTATION FOR EVERYONE

21. By converting a portion of road tax and BPM in variable costs (through the odometer or the fuel) is economical and rewarding less driving.
22. We are opposed to toll roads; road construction we finance through general taxation.
23. Electric driving is promoted, especially in urban area (taxi, urban distribution, car sharing). This
provides additional benefits in the form of a better local air quality.
24. No later than 2015, the European particulate matter and nitrogen oxide standards achieved everywhere. Monitoring network, the
extensively, especially in the cities.
25. The Eurovignette will be replaced by an electronic toll (Maut) for freight, as in
Germany.
26. The services of the CBR is improved. Unnecessary medical tests, such as for
ADHD-ers, be abolished. The rates of medical checks, no cash cow, but
cover costs.
27. For the opening of the Second Maasvlakte is a new western river crossing is necessary.
Our preference is devoted to the construction of the Orange Tunnel.
28. The cabotage rules (on the road in our country by hauliers from another country) are
stricter enforcement, to prevent transport companies from low-cost EU countries unfair
compete and exploiting truck drivers.
OTHER SERVICES
29. The Netherlands is an important transport hub. For the growth of freight we want more use
Making the inland and coastal shipping. We also take measures to encourage the small inland. So we also provide the relief of our road network.
30. The inconvenience of Schiphol should not increase. The airport continues to be a public company. Also with other
airports nearby residents must be better protected against more nuisance.
31. We will refrain from reopening of Twente Airport and the upgrading of airport Lelystad.
32. The inconvenience of military AWACS aircraft over southern Limburg is tackled.
33. The bicycle is often the fastest short-distance transport, also healthy and clean. Lake
use of bicycles in urban areas can reduce car use. Therefore we shift
investment resources for bicycle facilities.
34. There will be more (guarded) bicycle at (bus) stations.
35. We want to improve the safety of vulnerable road users, especially in 30-kilometer zones and on school routes.
41 NEW CONFIDENCE
photo Martijn Beekman / Holland Height ©
42 WORRIES TO EACH OTHER
10. WORRIES TO EACH OTHER
We need to strengthen connections in our society and reduce conflicts. Also between generations
so they worry about each other and care for each other. Older people should not be afraid of retirement and
to be sure of proper care and support. Children should not grow up in poverty. Raising children is not
patronize, but a preparation for the future. Where necessary, we want to support parents in this. Well
youth is very important, so we fight bureaucracy. And we watch for the past each other
work of health care institutions. People with physical, mental or psychological disability must
can fully participate in society.
Fortunately, not everyone is equal, which holds diverse society. But then we have to treat everyone equal. In our country we have learned that differences in orientation are not a problem and that
society there are many benefits if its people are left as they are. Discrimination against lesbians and
gay, bisexual and transgender people in conflict with the Constitution and the core values ​​of equality and should never be tolerated.
OUR PROPOSALS
CHILDREN
1. Tackling child poverty is a priority. Municipalities will have more opportunities
to fight poverty, to reorganize debts and to prevent children growing up in poverty. The
money for municipal poverty reduction and debt must also actually there
to be used. The child benefit is income dependent and void for families with the highest incomes.
2. Child care should be affordable and of good quality. Better monitoring of the relief and parents more rights and more say in the quality and cost of childcare. Childcare Organisations are inspected regularly and the opinions of the GGDinspecteurs be respected by the municipalities.
3. There will be more accessible centers nearby where parents are supported with parenting issues. When it is necessary, as provided immediate assistance and care and, possibly directly
referred for specialist help. So without all kinds of indications and unnecessary bureaucracy. We
establish national firm where such a center must meet minimum.
4. We must do everything to prevent, detect child abuse offenders to pick and
victims get the help they need. Well investigating suspected child abuse is available nationwide. Anyone who works with children being educated in the
recognizing, identifying and discussing child abuse.
43 NEW CONFIDENCE
5. Children should be able to play outside. In new build areas will have to start at least
three percent of the space decorated as a playroom. In existing neighborhoods it is developing
stimulated green and play area.
6. we are going to encourage more grassroots. At the schools, primary and secondary education, should be given adequate sports education.
7. Obesity in children threatens the health and therefore we will approach it. Educating
parents and children, we improve. Advertising of unhealthy foods aimed at children under twelve
year we ban. Vending machines we exclude from schools, as well as sales of unhealthy food on counters.
8. The closing obstetrics wards in hospitals can lead to dangerous situations for mother and child. Good obstetric care is one close to mother and child to be offered. To
infant mortality to occur, we offer more guidance before, during and after pregnancy.
9. Netherlands will adhere strictly to the International Convention on Children's Rights.
New legislation we now test to this Convention.
YOUNG PEOPLE AND YOUTH CARE
10. If necessary, youth services quickly and close to the child and the family provided. Youth care goes where
possible to the municipalities. Parents can find help at low-threshold centers in the district. When specialized care are referred directly. The bureaucracy and the indications
the youth are kept to an absolute minimum. Unnecessary rules and regulations
deleted. The possibilities for youth workers to young people after the age of 18 to continue to assist and provide aftercare to be broadened.
11. Competition in the youth we want. Children and their parents retain the right to youth care
and there is no contribution to child welfare. Market forces in mental health care
youngsters will be reversed. Youth Aid workers have more time for contact with children and
families.
12. We take measures to vandalism and crime by preventing young people. If a young person
an offense has been committed, we must prevent it from re-offending. During the stay in
a juvenile detention center, we prepare young people better for their return to school or work.
13. Polluters and destroyers go as community service cleaning up their own neighborhood and refurbishing. Long
wait for a sentence to be over. We are making more use of "training orders' and
programs where victims and perpetrators come into contact with each other and learn from the perpetrators
consequences of their criminal act.
14. Young people are to a large extent formed by their own environment. There are therefore more
youth workers and more facilities for young people in the area, such as playing fields, playgrounds,
skateparks and community centers.
15. We will not scare away young people with so-called "mosquito' devices, which one only for youngsters
audible and annoying beep produce.
16. There will be better informed about the consequences of alcohol and drug use to young people and their
parents. Alcohol polyclinic offer aftercare as young people with alcohol poisoning in a hospital
recorded.
44 WORRIES TO EACH OTHER
17. Unemployment among young people we deal with. Failure in education is challenged by intensive support. Pupils who need it, get practical lessons. All students
may complete their apprenticeship training.
ELDERLY
18. Everything in the policy is aimed at older people who need assistance to leave as long as possible at home
live and support there. Has its own management and its own desire of dependent elderly people
lie at the center. We promote the construction of lifetime homes.
19. Caregivers, partners or children of elderly living at home, are more active support to the
live at home longer sustainable. People with dementia have a fixed contact, a single person
which regulates matters to them (case manager). Municipalities are encouraged to pursue a more active policy on family caregiving.
20. The innovation programs that have been started in the National Elderly Programme get a
chance. Therefore, the program will continue after 2012.
21. Older people are often the victims of aggressive (telephone) sales. This kind of malpractices
we tackle harder.
22. The policy adopted around tackling elder abuse, both physically, mentally and financially,
we continue.
23. We encourage the knowledge of geriatrics at the hospital, in order to increase the quality of elderly care and avoid unnecessary costs. When abuse or deprivation of elderly people in a care setting should always report it to the police. For older people who are robbed at home
we are going to make available good support and aftercare.
24. There will be an Ombudsman for the elderly. There, the elderly can with complaints against public authorities
or other organizations visit.
PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES
25. The disability policy is comprehensive and aimed at lifelong and life-wide living with a
restriction. It is preferred that one minister or secretary of state all the components - such as housing,
work and income, transport, access to buildings, care and support - coordinates.
26. People with disabilities are now able to map free parking. Disability transport
improves quality by imposing legally. All persons with disabilities
We trains and platforms, as well as buses, trams and subways more accessible. Accessibility also
public spaces and buildings will be improved for people with disabilities.
27. People who live in a care facility by keeping the personal contribution for participation on any money
to society. Therefore the pocket and clothing allowance scheme will be extended.
28. The government and large companies should employ more people with a disability or partial disability and organizing appropriate internships. Therefore we make a
legislation.
29. Government websites and services, we make it more accessible for people with disabilities.
30. The Netherlands is the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities of the UN urgently
approve.
45 NEW CONFIDENCE
31. The cuts in the so-called 'appropriate education' we turn back. For students with a
impairment or disability special education should be available. Money for care pupils
devoted to support, not to other matters.
32. Caring for people with disabilities is completely out of their own control and their own wishes
people who need care.
33. Taping, isolating or drugging of people is prohibited in a care situation. When there is
forced concern, this should be reported, reviewed by an independent commission and ankle
to be short-lived. Here is the Health Inspectorate sharply increasing.
SEXUAL ORIENTATION
34. Netherlands is supposed to stand for the right to free sexuality and the associated rights
including gay marriage and the right to adoption for same-sex pairs. This also includes
guarantee equal rights in education, employment and housing, regardless of sexual orientation and gender identity. Netherlands agrees, echoing the Council of Europe, the principles governing the
application of human rights in relation to sexual orientation and gender identity and sees
monitor its compliance.
35. Discrimination and neglect of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) we never tolerate.
That also means that refusing or hindering teachers and students because of sexual orientation
or identity, absolutely can not. Officials refuse we will not allow. People of the same sex
should be able to marry in any church. Violence against members of the LGBT communities
always dealt with by the police and the Public Prosecution Service.
46 A CLEAN FUTURE
11. A CLEAN FUTURE
We need to keep our country clean and livable, now and for the future. What we destroy now, we have
never returned. The share of renewable energy so let's rise tightly, for example by imposing more conditions on energy suppliers. The government takes its responsibility in the coming years
for energy-efficient production and more sustainable electricity and gas. The next four years, a
moratorium on coal-fired and nuclear plants.
We encourage people to opt for efficient and sustainable energy. Moreover, we take action
to greening the tax system considerably and save on energy use. We propose
to treat waste more environmentally friendly and reusable materials. We will also identify asbestos contamination and better control. Polluted soil we will clean better. Moreover, we strengthen
monitoring environmental pollution and enforce environmental rules. We give citizens direct financial
get benefit if they opt for green energy.
OUR PROPOSALS
ENERGY
1. The government looks better monitor the business locations of large power plants, energy-intensive
industry and companies that have great potential for the utilization of waste heat, such as the
horticulture. In this way, the overall energy efficiency at the lowest cost may be increased and expensive investments in limited energy infrastructure. The discharge of waste heat
is discouraged by the environmental and financial incentives.
2. We put in at least two percent energy savings per year, both for businesses and households.
3. Using the public grid is sufficient investment in the improvement of electricity grids to enable the integration of more renewable energy, both at regional level (smart
grids) and at Northwest European level.
4. The operators remain entirely public companies, profit distributions to shareholders
(municipal and provincial) will be restricted.
5. The large power plants will pay a portion of the network costs, in accordance with the principle "
polluter pays'.
6. We improve cooperation with our neighbors around the North Sea for a common
network management and for the construction of a wall outlet to the sea, "to wind farms connection
To make it just as possible.
47 NEW CONFIDENCE
7. Until 2020, we want an annual increase of at least 1.5 per cent renewable energy in total
primary energy annually thereafter at least 2 percent. We encourage the use of solar energy
and giving free rein to research into and use of other renewables. Also
we increase the commitment to the sustainability of energy supplies through more space
offering individuals and energy cooperatives (such as no energy at local production of
sustainable electricity and gas for their own use).
8. Windmills at sea are a major sustainable energy source for decades to come; therefore
there must - in collaboration with the other North Sea countries - are heavily wagered on. Generating wind power country should be clearly framed by a structure (where it,
where not) and more stringent requirements for noise and external safety. People living near wind farms can
benefit from the proceeds, in return for visual impact.
9. The quality of the energy label for buildings is regulated in a manner similar to the MOT for motor vehicles. Investment in energy efficiency in existing buildings are made more attractive by differentiating the property tax (property tax) or
the notional rental value based on energy consumption.
10. Intensification of research and product development is the key to the achievement of the energies climate goals. We are in favor of increasing the funds for research and
development in the field of economy and energy of biobased'. Partly through public research programs, partly through tax breaks for businesses.
11. The government sets a good example in the area of ​​climate and energy saving,
efficient cars, increased use of public transport and cycling and the use of renewable energy and
building materials.
12. We begin only on shale gas if safe and environmentally friendly.
13. We support the efforts of environmentalists to 30 percent less carbon dioxide (CO2) in 2020
emit. In a European context we are the defects of the emission allowances system
greenhouse gases (ETS) dissolve as quickly as possible. The aim is that the CO2 price as soon as possible a level
reached where investments in energy-saving measures are profitable. We stop
giving away allowances.
14. On bioenergy and biomass are very stringent sustainability requirements. These forms of energy
only be sustainable if they do not endanger the food supply and actual CO2
saved.
15. Before we move on to the underground storage of carbon dioxide should its effects better
be examined. Rather than doing expensive and uncertain investments in storing carbon dioxide, we can better invest to reduce their emissions.
16. There will be a charge on the landing and takeoff of aircraft to the environmental impact of
reduce traffic, as long as there is no European kerosene tax.
17. Nuclear energy and energy from coal has no future. We therefore do not grant permits
for the construction of new coal and nuclear plants. We provide the safest possible aboveground storage of nuclear waste. Nuclear waste is not processed or reused. We stop unnecessary back and forth dragging of nuclear waste from power generation plants.
48 A CLEAN FUTURE
ENVIRONMENT
18. We must be much more efficient with the use of raw materials, by limiting unnecessary
consumption through smarter product designs and a growing proportion of recycling of residues and renewable raw materials.
19. All waste should be minimized and as close as possible to be processed at the source.
Permits for cross-border transport of waste are only issued if it is established
which is more environmentally friendly processing elsewhere than in the Netherlands.
20. The Netherlands is nationally and internationally to the big problem of wandering in the plastic
combat seas.
21. High-quality use of residues is promoted by taxing landfill and incineration. The
overcapacity in the incinerators is being phased out as soon as possible.
22. Deposits on soda bottles is a good way to use plastic again. We love
Thus in position. We also want to deposit in small bottles (PET bottles) and cans. Kringloopwinkels earn
extra encouragement.
23. There will be a legal obligation for all asbestos inventory buildings. The results of this survey are public. Acute risks are revealed at an asbestos survey must be submitted within
two years to be rehabilitated. When asbestos contamination identified the basic principle is that the
polluter pays. There will be a compensation fund for asbestos victims.
24. Too much soil remediation now include moving contaminated soil. We want them
Stop: contaminated soil should really be cleaned as much as possible instead of moved
a less annoying location.
25. A national spatial development strategy for which the 400 most dangerous enterprises (under the Decree on the risks of serious industrial accidents) formulates better principles and preconditions for the
spatial integration of these companies. Attention are: clustering, partitioning,
reducing transport flows of dangerous substances and shifting transport flows
to safer modes of transport, such as pipelines and inland waterways.
26. We improve the enforcement of environmental regulations by the formation of regional agencies
(RUD's). Regional support for national inspectorates and staff of security regions in the
environmental and safety enforcement be housed under one roof with the regional
execution services.
27. The deterioration of air quality and noise pollution will be reduced by traffic: through stricter requirements for emissions from motor vehicles (in EU context) and user charges
for railway equipment and trucks, which increased emissions lead to higher fees. The
independent monitoring of air quality and noise is improved.
28. The control and punishment of illegal discharges at sea and mixing of marine fuels
with flammable chemical waste has a higher priority. Along with shippers and shipbuilders,
port and market, we are committed to a clean shipping.
49 NEW CONFIDENCE
photo Ellen Cook / Holland Height ©
50 GROUND TO MOUTH
12. GROUND TO MOUTH
People are increasingly removed from the food on their plates. We often view the production of our food is not the
attention it deserves. The Netherlands is in Europe behind organic farming and products. Much
Farmers stop it now. This has major implications for farm families, but also for the Dutch
cultural landscape. The money that now goes to Europe and comes back in the form of surcharges, can be better
used to make the Dutch agriculture considerably more sustainable and greener. We're going to take better care of our
animals. Factory farming is in its present form in our small country is not tenable.
The Netherlands has many beautiful, but fragmented nature. The Wadden Sea and the Veluwe are nicely compact
areas, but a good plan to align the Oostvaardersplassen in the Veluwe is the government
Rutte deleted. Nature has several aims: natural preserve biodiversity but also for
tourism and recreation. 'Engineered' nature also falls under this. A beautifully maintained park, a dagcamping
and a green area around a city have great value. They give us joy and inner peace.
OUR PROPOSALS
AGRICULTURE AND ANIMAL WELFARE
1. The increase in scale in the agricultural and food sector is halted. Farmers earn
a fair price for a good and honest product. We encourage organic farming. Farmers
should be able to broaden their business more easily, so they are a part of their income
can earn with nature and landscape, recreation and care, energy and services.
2. There will be a national initiative on all fronts in the chain of sustainable food to go. Also
it advocated at European and global level. Food Speculation is tackled.
3. We want a moratorium on mega stalls. The natural behavior of animals, the capacity of the
nature and the health of the people become the norm.
4. Cycles are closed. That means that there is no more fertilizer is administered in agriculture
can incorporate grass and crops. Keeping the number of animals in the Netherlands this
tuned in (animal rights through licenses). The Nitrates Directive is achieved in 2015.
5. Conserve resources and food is rewarded, addressing wastage. Phosphate and other
valuable raw materials are recovered from fertilizer and from sewage sludge and reused.
6. In greenhouses, the greenhouse is the energy source of the future, if we promote energy efficiency and release energy use better. The special rate energy (gas) disappears for greenhouses.
51 NEW CONFIDENCE
7. The transformation of the current generation of genetically modified crops is not in Netherlands
allowed.
8. The contribution to the "Common Agricultural Policy of the European Union (40 percent of the
total expenditure of the EU) is halved. The direct per hectare be abolished. What
remains is a fund pricing and marketing policy, in case farmers' income by the
Soil subsidence, and a greening fund other (new) member states should encourage agriculture
towards sustainability. The EU's agricultural policy must not result in food dumping in developing countries. The milk quota system in the European Union will not be abolished.

9. There will be a stricter admissions policy for pesticides. We promote the use of biological pesticides. In connection with a possible relationship to bee mortality is a ban
on the use of so-called "neonicotinoid".
10. To reduce the health risks of intensive livestock farming is a limit
to the amount of harmful substances (endotoxins) that may contain the air, combined with
a distance norm. Municipalities will have more legal options to fight on the basis of health risks unwanted expansions in livestock farming. There comes a compensation scheme
for victims of Q fever.
11. The preventive use of antibiotics is prohibited in intensive farming and curative
consumption to a minimum. Cattle and veterinarians are no longer earn from the sale of veterinary medicines.
12. What alternatives to animal testing are available, these will be made mandatory. The killing of
'Surplus' animals is prohibited.
13. The Dutch Food Safety Authority will be strengthened. Abuses in transporting animals and
in slaughterhouses is stricter. Transport of animals for slaughter over long distances
prohibited.
14. Animal welfare standards are tightened, even for shops, exhibitions and markets. Within livestock animals should be able to exhibit natural behavior. Cows belong in the pasture, and
we promote the free range of other animals. There is an end to it by breeding of pets and farm animals. Breeding and killing of animals solely for their fur or
plumage is prohibited. We propose a 'positive list' showing which animals are fit to
keep as a pet. We are for the chipping of dogs and cats. We have a duty of care
animals in the Constitution.
15. Preventive vaccination against animal diseases is made possible again and that the slaughter of animals only as a last resort is needed.
16. In order to combat cruelty to animals, the court may impose a ban on keeping animals.
"Pleasure craft" is prohibited. Other hunting like geese or wild boars is reduced. For
the professional sector we write methods for catching and fish farming, the suffering of
fish avoided as much as possible.
17. No more closed There fisheries agreements that are harmful to nature and population
developing countries.
18. The investigation of meat substitute products is promoted. Organic food by
the government promoted.

52

GROUND TO MOUTH

NATURE
19. The National Ecological Network and the corridors are completed in the originally intended
size. This makes the robust nature and biodiversity is good. The realization may be extended to ten additional years. The Oostvaarderswold priority.
20. The funding for the provinces for the implementation of nature are
placed in better balance with the size of the tasks.
21. The areas covered by Natura 2000 "(the European network of nature reserves that contain significant flora and fauna) are well furnished. Management plans to be operational in 2015. Any ammonia emissions into surrounding agricultural fields include anywhere below the critical value
are. The protection of nature through for Spatial Planning and environmental legislation is strengthened
rather than broken off.
22. In the North Sea we make conservation areas, for nature restoration and rebuilding of fish stocks
to improve. Overfishing we prevent and promote sustainable fishing.
23. The Wadden Sea, which is of unique ecological value and a World Heritage site, is fully protected
remain.
24. We are in favor of it ajar Haringvliet (Kier Decision). This promotes the
delta ecosystems.
25. Further deepening of the Westerschelde affects the ecological quality of the natural and
We do not therefore wish. But we do want far-reaching cooperation between the ports of Antwerp, Rotterdam, Zeebrugge and Flushing allowing each port is optimally utilized within the limits of
the carrying capacity of nature. We are looking for an alternative to the flooding of the Hedwige polder.

53

NEW CONFIDENCE

photo Reyer Boxem / Holland Height ©

54

NOT BY BREAD ALONE

13. NOT BY BREAD ALONE

Life is more than just work and earn money. Feeding the imagination and of the
mind is just as important. Movies and television programs that you see, books you read or write, music
you make if you're listening, beautiful paintings you make viewing in the museum itself, plays where you are watching or playing. Those are things you lift out above the ordinariness of
the existance. To promote and give free rein to all forms of creativity enriches our lives. A
wide range of art and culture should therefore be available and accessible to a wide audience.
Library Branches in old neighborhoods and rural areas should not be closed, but cherished. Just
as music and brass bands, choirs and drama clubs, music venues, studios for visual arts and other
small centers. Budding artists are encouraged talent is encouraged, so that we
Netherlands have also creative and performing arts in the future of high level.
VAT on art and culture is therefore reduced and musicians and other professional artists we offer
a fair price and a decent income. We encourage children to exercise more. And we do
free entry to museums as possible to allow everyone to enjoy what all of us and
left to us. The media are a source of entertainment but also provide much needed information and
confrontation of ideas. Public Broadcasting is why we give the opportunity to develop themselves. We are also committed to a broader news service, including at local and regional level. Makers
must be given the space to make money in new ways with their work. Besides the traditional way
through record or gallery artists must be able to present themselves freely on the Internet and thus their
public and perhaps reach the buyers of their work.

OUR PROPOSALS
ART AND CULTURE
1. VAT on art and culture will be reduced to six percent.
2. Subsidized museums hear at least one day per week is free. We investigate
the possibilities of a restart of the National History Museum.
3. Dutch musicians should get a fair chance to earn a living making music. Visitors concert we are going to protect law against driving up the prices of tickets
for concerts and events.
4. Professional artists get a fair chance at a decent job with their own income
deserve. We value talent of artists. Therefore, we will carefully
to with art education and postgraduate institutions. The creative sector is a
place in innovation. The government serves as an example of cultural patronage.

55

NEW CONFIDENCE

5. Libraries are not just knowledge and cultural treasures for young and old, as well as meeting places for the residents of districts and villages. Therefore they deserve continued support
government.
6. Musical and brass bands, choirs and drama clubs, music venues, workshops for art and
other small-scale creative centers are the basis for a broad cultural life. The government recognizes
therefore its responsibility to keep alive the cultural life and, where necessary, better
support.
7. Cultural Education in education is very important. Learned young is done old. The culture map
therefore deserves support.
8. The Dutch film and the Dutch pop music should be encouraged. Also new
media we see as a promising new opportunities for artists.
9. There is an end to buying on a large scale and at inflated prices by selling concert festival tickets. Together with the organizers measured by improvements in ticket sales.
10. We are sparing with the orchestras. The Metropole Orchestra, we want to preserve and diversity
orchestras in different provinces we find valuable.
11. Archaeology is a public task. We're going to conserve our monuments.

MEDIA
12. The Dutch Public Broadcasting and the regional broadcasters deserve protection and more
development. The mergers among broadcasters can go ahead, provided they are supported by
the broadcasters themselves. The emphasis is on quality, not ratings. Viewers get a say in it
digital channels on television and radio. Across providers (such as cable companies) a
full kind of consumer impact on channel packages developed. Also at the subsidized
media the minister's salary ceiling will apply.
13. There will be a more independent viewing guide, so the butcher does not have to approve his own flesh. Assessment is done except by broadcasters therefore also by independent experts; that comes
the reliability of the viewing benefits.
14. Newspapers are under pressure. Further concentration leads to impoverishment of news and opinion. The
government is committed to keeping the independent (regional) press upright.
15. Free internet does not come easily with a download ban. So we want not. But creative
For example, makers of films and music of course have the right to compensation for their
work. We are going to arrange, in consultation through the existing system of levies on carriers and
media.
16. There is a mismatch between the number of journalists and the number of advisers. That's why we go
reduce number of communication officers in ministries, provinces and municipalities.

SPORT
17. We are going to promote the sport. In primary and secondary education is adequate sports education (physical education) should be given. We are committed to school for swimming
every child.

56

NOT BY BREAD ALONE

18. While it is not known what the final cost will be, the Netherlands will not be a candidate
for the organization of the Olympic Games. All grants for the preparation of the possible
organization in 2028 we delete therefore being.
19. top sports policy should focus on talent, we want enough space for education
and sports on (very) high level. For athletes who had not yet sponsorship or race fees
can earn money is the income replacement benefit (the grant) funds.
20. Children also need to be able to play outside safely. In new build areas is therefore a
latitude norm of at least three per cent. In existing neighborhoods it is developing and green
stimulated leeway.

57

NEW CONFIDENCE

Photo sxc.hu

58

INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION

14. INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION

Netherlands is not an island, and Europe is not a fortress. International solidarity should be the basis of foreign policy. We need to promote the international legal order, in the interest of peace, security, prosperity
and welfare of all citizens of the world. Collaborating across borders connects countries and reduces the chances of
conflicts. Through international cooperation we make the world more stable, secure and prosperous. A
Europe of peace and security is a beacon for the rest of the world. A Europe that is primarily engaged in the
spread of a neoliberal policy which brings true collaboration in great danger.
Over the past twenty years, the EU has focused on becoming a powerful superstate
especially want to compete with other world powers. To this end more and more freedom is given to financial
markets and large multinationals at the expense of national sovereignty and democratic control. That is the
European cooperation for many people changed into European tyranny and solidarity in
Europe undermined. From now on, the cooperation should mainly be focused on monitoring the peace,
strengthening solidarity, preserving the individuality of countries and promote the common
prosperity. Netherlands promotes fair trade, balanced investment, work at decent wages and
corporate social responsibility, and is harmful to competition as tax and employment against. We are committed to developing new global security structures
To prevent war and other violence. We are working on a smaller army.

OUR PROPOSALS
EUROPEAN COOPERATION
1. European cooperation we focus no longer on only earn money but at the
peacekeeping, protection of the security and the promotion of prosperity and well-being
for everyone. Instead of increasing international competition that countries and people against
each design, we aim to improve cooperation to build a more social Europe, respectful
for diversity, subsidiarity and sovereignty. Instead of getting further transfer of national
sovereignty to the European Union we are going to focus on improving the effectiveness of cooperation
in Europe. The Brussels overregulation is curbed and the principle of subsidiarity
strictly applied. European cooperation can only be supported by the population. On important
decide they should therefore be able to speak out, for example through referendums. About our national
budget, our social system and our pensions, education and health care, housing and public transport
we decide and let Brussels does not play the boss.
2. We discard the current policy of the European Union of its neoliberal character. We urge the
influence of the army back to lobbyists of large companies in Brussels. At each consultation by the
European institutions, representatives of trade unions, consumer organizations, small and medium-sized enterprises and environmental and other organizations that represent general
interests to be heard. The monitoring role of the European Parliament should be
expanded.

59

NEW CONFIDENCE

3. The European Union is being transformed from a project in which the market is canonized a
partnership that promote prosperity in the countries at the center. The value of
the human dimension must be recognized by the European Union. That means that over job
given to small cooperatives and other initiatives to employees and consumers
give priority. No longer will each company expects collapsed on the European market:
social significance of small businesses for their own neighborhood is recognized. European rules
large companies and multinational corporations favor to be revised.
4. Economic policy in the European Union to sustainably emerge from the crisis better coordinated and better monitored by national parliaments and the European Parliament. That makes
possible sensible economic measures and prevents countries forced by Brussels
be their own economies to cut back broken.
5. The mandate of the European Central Bank (ECB) will be broadened and no longer only focused on
fighting inflation, but also on promoting employment. There will be democratic
supervision of the ECB.
6. In order to make European cooperation to weather beckoning perspective for citizens in Europe, should
financial markets are placed in Europe curtailed. Interventionist regulation of financial
Markets need to stabilize the European economy. In place of the ears to allow
hang what the markets dictate, politics will again take the reins, national and European.
7. The competition rules of the internal market to trade union rights and collective agreements between
workers and employers are not restricting. We suggest competition between Member States through ever lower
wages and lower rates for the tax on profits of companies off. This we counteract by agreement
To create a threshold for a minimum wage in all Member States, related to the national
income, and a common basis and minimum rate of tax on profits of companies. Tax evasion and tax avoidance by multinationals and letterbox companies
be addressed.
8. The ongoing reform of the EU procurement rules must aim at national,
regional and local conditions may make regarding sustainability and employment. The rules are simplified, so that the administrative burden both for the government and for SMEs. In public services, public procurement rules should not be misused to push through privatization.
9. The budget of the European Union is limited and circulation of European subsidies between
stop richer countries. Grants are limited to improvements in poorer regions. Netherlands
The next long-term budget of the European Union does not like their Member
European subsidies are not justified.
10. The proliferation of European agencies is usually opaque halted and
The Brussels bureaucracy is restricted. The exaggerated salaries of EU officials are in
aligned with that of national civil servants. We stop costly circus
European Parliament between Brussels and Strasbourg.
11. The European Union is holding together the next time hard enough. Further expansion of the Union are therefore not appropriate. Balkan countries, which are already accession agreements
made are welcome, provided they fully meet all membership requirements. Future expansion plans must be submitted by referendum to the Dutch population.
12. In addition to cooperation in the European Union's wider European cooperation is important, including
in the Council of Europe and the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe. Respect the

60

INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION

of the European Convention on Human Rights (ECHR) by all 47 Council of States
Europe (including Member States of the European Union) will receive more emphasis in our international
policy. The accession of the European Union to the ECHR will energetically undertaken.
Netherlands offers help to the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg for the responsible handling of complaints of human rights violations.

PEACE AND SECURITY
13. Netherlands gives priority to its constitutional obligation to promote international
law. With numerous international bodies and tribunals Netherlands must be the land of peace
and that radiate in all.
14. We are working on a smaller army. Take part in military missions in foreign countries
limited to those missions which at the express request of the United Nations take place, whereby
Netherlands also still makes his own choices. The latter includes, inter alia guarantees
for respecting international law, including the Geneva Conventions and human rights. The minimum age for participation by soldiers, corresponding desire
the United Nations, increased to 21 years. Each mission is followed by a comprehensive parliamentary review.
15. Effective counter-piracy missions we support its extension with operations ashore
must be viewed with great caution. The Dutch soldiers and police trainers in
Afghanistan we withdraw. Instead, we opt for civilian support to building the
country.
16. Israel is entitled to secure and recognized borders, the Palestinians are also entitled to their own
state, also with recognized and secure borders. Netherlands is the independent Palestinian state
also acknowledge and make a stand for its UN membership. Netherlands insists on implementation of
previous Security Council resolutions and international law. In addition, Netherlands
a case for an international dialogue with all representatives of the Palestinians. As long as
Israel continues Netherlands will condemn it with the illegal construction of houses in occupied territory
and in the EU insist on the suspension of the Association Agreement that Israel tax
gives for exports to the EU countries. The Dutch-Israeli relations are not intensified, as long as Israel continues to violate international law.
17. We protest most strongly against a creeping development of regionally-targeted old North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) to a global new NATO offensive
and aggressive intervention force. We therefore do not contribute to the current NATO plan for a
missile shield, which reduces our security rather than enhanced by increasing contradictions
countries outside NATO. We advocate further international cooperation for peace and security guard globally better and protect.
18. We want NATO to abandon its nuclear doctrine, because it does not contribute to the preservation and
promoting peace and security. Nuclear disarmament in Europe is a priority. Netherlands
send American nuclear weapons on our territory return. We take the initiative for an international stop on the production and use of depleted uranium weapons.
19. We see sharply on compliance with the International Convention on Cluster Munitions and seek
further limiting the arms race and arms exports. To countries that violate human rights
or lie in a voltage range, the Netherlands will in any case no weapons. Let the Dutch financial sector, we do not invest in the arms industry. Scholarships weapon we hold out.
Privatization of defense components we find undesirable.

61

NEW CONFIDENCE

20. The Dutch army is flying provisionally by the F-16 and refrains from purchasing JSF fighter. Netherlands buys no armed unmanned aircraft (drones) and calls for a
International Conference to regulate and restrict the use of this controversial weaponry.
21. Netherlands protest vigorously against the US Patriot Act, which intervenes directly in our national
democracy.
22. servicemen we ask the willingness to commit themselves with life and limb for our security and international law. This also requires that soldiers develop necessary cuts
defense made redundant, always be able to rely on careful monitoring and optimal
support. It is 'from work to work' the starting point. We ensure proper execution of
The parliament initiated wide Veteranenwet.

INTERNATIONAL SOLIDARITY
23. Netherlands shall ensure that international solidarity is the cornerstone of the international
policy. Peace and security are the best opportunities in a sustainable and fair global society. The fulfillment of the internationally agreed Millennium Development Goals is a high duty
of the world and should not be made dependent on temporary economic downturn.
24. Instead of the one-sided orientation in the World Trade Organization (WTO) on free trade, striving
we go to a more coherent policy. In it we connect the policies in the areas of food,
water, energy and raw materials together. And we are committed to fighting poverty, in combination
economic growth and the development of a decent justice system that human rights
respects.

25. We can best help poor countries by international fair trade rules, fair prices and
functioning tax authorities. Netherlands gives it priority over the coming years.
26. The poorest countries in the world belong in trade agreements to get the space their own economies,
including their own industries and agriculture, to build, to protect it temporarily.
Thus we prevent their food is permanently threatened. Netherlands advocated tightening of European Directives against food speculation.
27. 'Land grabbing', where foreign companies buy up scarce agricultural land, making farmers and citizens in poor countries victimized and deprives them of the ability to care for themselves. The Netherlands will counteract by pension funds, banks and insurance companies to agree not money
in stabbing such predatory companies. Countries and peoples must clear their own development
out can continue.
28. Dutch companies with subsidiaries holds that they are responsible for the operation of the subsidiary company in other countries. The government encourages companies accused abroad of violation of human rights or labor rights or environmental crimes there
commit, are persecuted in our country.
29. The Netherlands contributes to the development of certification systems, to ensure that as many products sold from poor countries in Europe are socially and environmentally
are produced responsibly. Netherlands provides more support to the work of the International Labour Organization of the United Nations to better protect workers' rights.

30. Now run poor countries $ 160 billion annually in tax revenues. The development of
a sustainable tax system and combat tax avoidance by multinational corporations would host
poor countries offer much new investment space. By allowing them to have resources, can

62

INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION

plans they develop themselves faster and stronger. And become less dependent on aid. Netherlands
must abandon its controversial role in facilitating this large-scale tax evasion and put
now appear in improved international exchange of information on taxpayers
tax avoidance and evasion to effectively counter. We help with our knowledge and expertise to the
poorest countries in establishing a functioning tax office.
31. We do not contribute to a new European Development Fund which is active from 2014 until
that is not demonstrably limited to cases in terms of scale is best regulated at EU level
could be.
32. We choose a development budget of 0.8 percent of Gross National
product (which we all produce annually). Through bilateral assistance we focus on those countries
which help the most in need. Any kind of waste while we tackle.

63

NEW CONFIDENCE

photo Peter Hilz / Hollandse Height ©

64

HEALTHY FINANCES

15. HEALTHY FINANCES

The banking crisis has beaten a hole in the public finances. Everyone agrees that we in
must bring order. This therefore cuts are necessary, it is also clear. To whom these cuts
land and at what pace we make them is a political choice. In one year, with draconian spending cuts and tax increases to reduce the deficit below three percent - as it seems to Brussels
want - leads to people having to spend much less. This will frustrate economic recovery
instead of stimulating. Therefore, the crisis would only be extended. Many economists and bodies such as the
IMF and OECD, that agree with us.
We want to get public finances in order. Already in 2013 put the first steps to do so, while the economic recovery is stimulated with a package of one-time government investment.
By 2015 the deficit will fall below the ceiling imposed by Brussels of three percent.
In addition, we generate through savings and additional revenues sufficient funds on term
to work towards a balanced budget.

OUR PROPOSALS
1. The Netherlands is committed to adapt European budgetary rules so sensible economic
policy is possible and countries will not be forced to cut back their economy devastated. Concrete
this means that the Netherlands in 2013 does not retain the imposed three percent budget norm from
the Stability Pact, but rather the economy is stimulated. Before 2015, the deficit is reduced to below three percent.
2. Economic policy in the EU and the euro zone countries are better coordinated to jointly
getting out of the crisis. In other European countries, a plan is made together with Northern Europe will stimulate the economy in order to bring the European economy going and tackle unemployment.
3. Countries such as Greece, whose debts are no longer tenable, are not helped by new loans. Netherlands must provide these so no more. Instead, a (larger);
part of the debt written off. This keeps the banks that lend to these countries also responsible for taking losses when a country can not repay its debt. When there
support comes from other countries, which should benefit the people, not the banks to
have borrowed them.
4. Netherlands should work to the European Central Bank (ECB) has a different role. The mandate can be adjusted so that not only combating inflation but also to stimulate the economy and employment objectives. Instead of European banks trillion
to provide cheap loans in the hope that by lending it again to governments, the can
ECB more directly stimulate the economy through government bonds from all euro area countries to buy.
That will benefit the citizens directly by lower government deficits. In addition,
therefore speculators put a heel. There will be democratic supervision of the ECB.

65

NEW CONFIDENCE

5. We oppose the current permanent eurozone bailout fund, the European Stability Mechanism (ESM). The current relief operations rather than help the countries concerned, but
especially the European banking system. When the ESM length come, we will make efforts to keep the
States - including the Netherlands - keep sufficient control over the permanent rescue fund and the money spent there. There will be a tighter control over expenditure by
European SAIs, national parliaments and the European Parliament. The Fund may not
be misused to enforce draconian and counterproductive cuts in countries of
borrow the fund.
6. There will be a new National Investment Bank (NIB), which will grant credit to fundamentally
healthy and well-run companies - and to start-ups. Thus we ensure that the industry again
can invest. It can also finance this investment bank long-term investments in sustainable economy.
7. We should avoid the new ABN Amro again a prey for a foreign
acquisition. Experience shows that foreign banks to prioritize lending in the country
where their headquarters are located. The Dutch government therefore retains a strategic interest in
ABN Amro. The Dutch Water Board (NWB) and the Bank of Dutch Municipalities (BNG)
not be privatized.
8. The Netherlands is committed to acquire international speculative capital flows.
Food Speculation, speculation in government bonds and other forms of speculation disruptive to the economy be tackled with anti-speculation plan. There will be a packet
of measures, including countering the opaque trade off-exchange
place, mitigating derivatives trading, dealing with high-frequency trading (very fast
fully automated trading), the approach of hot money ('Tobin tax') and a much stricter
control of market manipulation.
9. The dominant role of the dollar in our monetary system can be reduced by a full-fledged international reserve currency. Which can be based on the existing Special Drawing Rights (SDRs) of the International Monetary Fund (IMF), supplemented with important new
countries such as China, India and Brazil. The IMF and the World Bank are largely democratized
by the poor countries more influence.
10. There will be a legal ban on bonuses in the financial sector. Undeserved bonuses
be recovered.
11. We put a stop to top incomes. Administrators in the public and semi-public sector earn more than the minister.
12. The power of shareholders is limited in favor of employees. In large companies
employees can choose quadrennial half the members of the Supervisory Board.
13. wanpresterende administrators to more effectively tackle the legal possibilities
expanded. There will be a separate penal provision for financial mismanagement. Also, the civil
liability of directors increases.
14. The financial sector will be thoroughly reformed to prevent future derailments. Thus, there
stricter rules for large buyout funds and hedge funds. There will also be tighter control on the
credit rating agencies.
15. Netherlands is committed to the right to set more stringent national requirements on the reserves
banks to ensure that our banks are sufficiently safe. Like the United Kingdom and Swiss

66

HEALTHY FINANCES

zerland, we want to be more demanding than in accordance with the new international rules (Basel III) required
is to further reduce the risk of a new banking crisis.
16. New financial products are checked beforehand by the supervisory authority. Products that are no good, as profiteering policies are not allowed on the market.
17. We separate savings and investment banks. Thus we prevent banks ever gamble with
savings of their customers. We do this at European level. In anticipation of Dutch banks have already clearly separate internal risky and less risky activities.
18. The mortgage interest is capped at ten years for mortgage debt up to 350,000 euros.
The rate at which can be deducted is capped at 42 percent. So we worry
ensure that the subsidy is effectively weather and villa subsidy disappears. The repayment of mortgage debt is encouraged.
19. For the highest incomes will have a new top rate of 65 percent for the portion of income that exceeds € 150,000. The deductibility of pension contributions is capped at a
pensionable salary of one and a half times the average income.
20. There will be an extensive greening of the tax. By entering a number of
environmental taxes, such as the combustion load and an eco tax for large users, we use it
"polluter pays".
21. is highly unequal distribution of wealth in the Netherlands contested by taxing powers and capital income heavier. Because of the existing capital gains tax to replace
a capital gains tax, the capital gains are taxed more just because of
the actual realized capital gains tax. The rate goes thereof
up to 40 percent. For high performance is a separate wealth tax.
22. There will be a limitation of the interest relief at the gains, whereby it is discouraged to
companies to pump full of debt.
23. The bank tax is increased and supplemented by a financial transaction tax. That inhibits speculation and encourages available capital is deployed in the real economy.
24. Due to the tax cuts we run a lot of revenue miss. That's why we're just going to invest in our tax office.
25. The battle is entered with tax avoidance and tax evasion. There are short shrift to their savings, shell companies and tax havens. There is openness about
many multinationals in each country to pay taxes and be as fast as possible international
made arrangements to put an end to the international competition for corporate profits
taxing less and less. In Europe, there is a minimum rate of tax on profits.

67

NEW CONFIDENCE

68

ANNEX 1: ABBREVIATIONS AND DIFFICULT CONCEPTS

APPENDIX 1: Abbreviations and

DIFFICULT CONCEPTS

Acceptance obligation: the legal duty of an institution / health care provider to accept every one of
the health insurance package, regardless of gender, age or health.
ACTA (Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement) trade treaty for international standards in the
field of enforcement of intellectual property law.
ADHD (Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder) disorder in which patients exhibit hyperactive behavior.
USA Patriot Act: US law - which is a direct response to the attacks of September 11, 2001 - that gives the US government more opportunities to gather information on and on
take action against possible terrorist activities. Particularly in the area of ​​privacy law is serious
infringements.
MOT: General periodic inspection is the mandatory vehicle inspection for traffic safety
promote and protect the environment.
Seizure-free rate means a part of the income on which no attachment may be placed by the load.
In relation to pension: threshold which no pension occurs.
Building Act: Decision specifying the minimum technical requirements are displayed in which a building
must satisfy.
BPM: taxes on cars and motor vehicles.
Recreational sport: sport that can be practiced by all levels of society on an amateur basis.
Greenhouse gases are gases that contribute to global warming (particularly carbon dioxide, chlorofluorocarbons,
methane, ozone, and nitrogen compounds).
Outside Debt Statement: Statement of asylum seekers who can not return fault of their own
to their country of origin.
CBR: CBR.
Care Assessment Centre: foundation that determines which AWBZ care (Act on Exceptional
Health) person is entitled.
CITO test: final test in primary education for advice when choosing a school for
secondary education.

69

NEW CONFIDENCE

Data Protection: independent body to ensure that personal information is used carefully and protected and that the privacy of citizens in the future
is guaranteed.
Geneva Conventions: the collective name for the four treaties under international
law formulated in 1949 in Geneva (Switzerland) and applicable at the time of a
armed conflict.
Cookies: leave information on the hard drive of someone who has visited a website.
Corrective referendum binding referendum in which citizens are for or against an order or rule of the
government can pronounce.
Counter: distribution point.
Device fingerprinting: new technology of Internet to the surfing behavior of a user
recognize without first asking permission.
Diagnosis Treatment Combination (DBC), a DTC describes four codes (type of care, demand for care, diagnosis,
treatment) with any complaint and which request a patient enters the hospital, the diagnosis is made, and it describes the proposed treatment.
Diploma Bonus: reward schools when a student receiving his or her diploma
achieves.
Donner Points: additional property evaluation points for apartments in shortage areas, leaving
rents have gone up sharply. Named after the then Minister Donner.
Double registration lists: registration lists for students with and without delay.
Eigenwoningforfait: a fictitious income to count the owner of a property in his income
from work and home in order to calculate the income tax. The notional rental value is determined on a
percentage of the WOZ value.
Allowance: right to discharge a certain amount of waste.
Energy: label using information about the energy consumption of a particular product.
Leasehold Agreement: agreement which entitles to a surcharge belonging to another
plot of land to be used.
European procurement rules: registration procedure prescribed by the European Union which
Municipalities are obliged when they carry out tasks by third parties.
Eurovignette: tax on heavy vehicles.
Financial transaction tax: a small tax on financial transactions between major players
(trading in equities, bonds and currencies between banks, insurers and large investors).
Commuter tax: tax to be paid by passengers about their travel expenses.
FWG15: Function rating Healthcare salary 15.

70

ANNEX 1: ABBREVIATIONS AND DIFFICULT CONCEPTS

Basic research: research aimed at acquiring knowledge without at
for hand the existence of possible practical applications.
Hedge funds: mutual funds that invest in a risky way.
Rent protection: legal protection of tenants versus landlords have when
lease is terminated.
Rent allowance: An allowance for the cost of hiring the government for tenants in relation to
their income paying too much rent.
Indication Madness: jumble of bodies concerned with establishing treatment methods.
International Convention against Cluster munitions treaty that the use, production, storage and
Transport bans cluster munitions.
Whistleblower: rules that provide protection to employees who abuses in their own
organization or industry make public.
Caregivers: Family or friends who provide unpaid care to long-term sick or elderly.
MDGs: in 2000 formulated goals which focus on eradicating global
poverty.
Nareis-term, three-month term refugees after obtaining a residence permit in eight
must take when submitting a request for family reunification.
Neonicotinoids: new pesticides based on active ingredient nicotine.
Net neutrality: right of every user worldwide to any website with the same speed and quality
to consult.
Nitrates Directive: Directive on the protection of water by nitrates from agricultural
sources.
Baseline: measure provides that workers receive no pay rise.
Open source: software whose source code is accessible to everyone and everyone can
adapted and distributed.
Transfer tax: tax charged on the acquisition of real estate.
Payrolling: a company gives the responsibility for his employer out of your hands, the
staff employed comes from a company that takes the salary for her account.
Primary energy: energy that is extracted from original sources of energy like coal, oil and
natural gas.
Primary defenses: dikes that protect against floods.
Respite care: the temporary assumption of total care, which is provided by the caregiver, by
professionals and volunteers in the form of home care, day care, respite recording and so on.

71

NEW CONFIDENCE

Revision Council: an independent board, which is to bend outside the judiciary on legal
errors in a criminal trial.
Shale gas: natural gas extracted from shale (shale).
Smart Grid: an electricity network which, in theory, all users of electricity also electricity
the network can provide, enabled by intelligent recording and issuance capacity within the
network.
Subsidiarity: the principle that the state must refrain from activities that smaller communities or
individual citizens can do themselves.
Mandatory tender: tender procedure to which a municipality is required when they execute a command by third parties.
Veteranenwet: law which ensures that all veterans the recognition, appreciation and care where they get
are entitled to.
White Collar Crime: type of crime committed by people with high social status,
such as lawyers and notaries.
WOZ value: Value of Real Property (residential, commercial, hospitals, etc.) that is set annually by the municipality.
ZZP: Self-employed without employees.

72

ANNEX 2: REPORTS BY SP 2010-2012

ANNEX 2: REPORTS BY SP 2010-2012

Consequences of the introduction family assistance
Sadet Karabulut and Tjitske Siderius - May 2012.
PVV: Tolerance at what price?
Arjan Vliegenthart and Tijmen Lucie - April 2012.
Runners on the increase in fines
Nine Kooiman and Erik de Vries - March 2012.
A week in Israel
Harry van Bommel and Guido van Leemput - February 2012.
The small barge in heavy weather
Farshad Bashir and Jurgen van der Sloot - January 2012.
The elderly have their say
Renske Leijten, Hanne Drost, Ineke Palm - September 2011.
The disabled have their say
Renske Leijten, Hanne Drost, Ineke Palm - September 2011.
Caring for each other
Renske Leijten and Henk van Gerven - November 2011.
One for Nature
Henk van Gerven - November 2011.
More broken promises of Geert Wilders
Arjan Vliegenthart, Johan van den Hout and Ronald van Raak - September 2011.
Other budget
Ewout Irrgang, Ben van Gils - September 2011.
A better teacher for the same money
Manja Smits and Wouter Groot Koerkamp - August 2011.
The sheltered workshop to the word
Sadet Karabulut - June 2011.
The fire at the word
Ronald van Raak, Ineke Palm, Said Sarwary, Erik de Vries - June 2011.

73

NEW CONFIDENCE

18 Children: 72 reports
Nine Kooiman - June 2011.
Lessons from Chemie-Pack Moerdijk
Paul Jansen, Patrick van Lunteren, Remi Poppe, Wheel Senden - January 2011.
Less money; Larger classes
Manja Smits - November 2010.
Our concern
Henk van Gerven, Renske Leijten and Ineke Palm - June 2010.
The GP speaking
SP parliamentary group - in June 2010.
Heart of the matter - the small business support
Sharon Gesthuizen - March 2010.
Read or download?
Look at www.sp.nl/service/rapport

74

Snouckaertlaan 70
3811 MB Amersfoort
T (088) 243 55 55
F (033) 462 55 12
E sp@sp.nl
www.sp.nl
