Conservatives
parliamentary elections program
2013-2017

HØYRES PURPOSE CLAUSE:
"Right will pursue a conservative policy advances,
built on the Christian cultural basis, the rule of law
and democracy, to promote personal freedom and
social responsibility, participation and ownership,
and a binding national and international
cooperation. "
(Adopted at the Congress in Stavanger in 1971)

CONTENTS:
1. New ideas and better solutions

p. 5

2. Education and Culture

p. 9

3. Health

s. 23

4. Transport

s. 33

5. Business and Economy

s. 41

6. Environment and Energy

s. 55

7.? Local self-government and public services

s. 61

8. Justice and preparedness

s. 69

9. Family, work and social

s. 77

10. Diversity and Inclusion

s. 87

11. Foreign and Defense

s. 93

chapter 1:

new ideas and
better solutions
Norway is a good country to live in, and few countries have better opportunities than us to invest
future and ensure the welfare, growth and secure jobs.
Conservative policy based on respect for the generations that have gone before, and a sense of responsibility
for those who come after us. Although this program does for coming
parliamentary term, we advocated a comprehensive, responsible and long-term policies that have
Sustainability also over time.

Opportunities for all
The aim of the Conservatives' policy is a society with opportunities for all.
The Nordic countries are characterized by an open market economy, cooperation, equality and a high
level of trust between people. Small differences in the society is a Nordic value, hanging
together with our culture and tradition.
If we are to preserve the values ​​that characterize the Nordic model, we need a
education and welfare policy that ensures that as many people as possible are able to participate actively in social and
workplace.
We must set limits for politics and clarify personal responsibility. The
individual and families must be given more freedom to decide over their own lives. We need a strong and
independent civil society. The State shall not be everything to everyone, but more for those who need it
most.

New ideas
Right builds this application on four basic ideas. These ideas allow for better
solutions - solutions that can bring Norway ahead and give more opportunity to participate.
• Diversity is a positive force for
change.
• Knowledge is a prerequisite for solving
challenges we face.

• Creating values ​​is valuable in itself.
• The proliferation of power makes society
stronger.

6

NEW IDEAS AND BETTER SOLUTIONS

Better Solutions
on the major
challenges
Livskraft
Life Force is about what connects us as human beings. Family, school,
sports club, church, workplace and countless other community forms the patchwork
of relationships that bind people to each other.
With a more diverse population and a rapidly growing state, we are facing new
challenges. These challenges can not we meet with old solutions.

Conservatives have solutions for:
• a living and real local democracy, where
power is transferred from the state to robust
municipalities
• a strong and independent civil society
to ensure freedom, equality, diversity and
balance of power

• to ensure that individuals and organizations
may exercise their faith and beliefs without state
interference

NEW IDEAS AND BETTER SOLUTIONS

7

Sustainability
A sustainable society is a society that takes care of basic social values,
safeguard the welfare and care for the environment. The Norwegian welfare model must be developed with the new
solutions to be sustainable in the long term.
Right will ensure the sustainability of our society through greater diversity, renewal and
binding environmental and climate policies.

Conservatives have solutions for:
• choice and innovation in the public
funded welfare through a
diversity of public and private offerings
• reduction in the percentage of residents who are
wholly or partly outside the workplace, and
second chance for those who fall outside

• to preserve nature and the biological
diversity in Norway
• Norway to be a driving force for new
international climate agreements and contribute
to technological and behavioral changes
reduce greenhouse gas emissions in Norway and
international

Competitiveness
Norway has a high employment rate and a business sector that in several areas argue strongly
internationally. We are however in danger of being too one-sided dependent on petroleum revenues
and petroleum related industries. In addition to developing the petroleum industry, we must have
more legs to stand on in the future.
Good and stable conditions for business and a school where knowledge is a priority, they are
Key assumptions for increased innovation and new jobs.
A good school is also the most important instrument of social cohesion in a community setting
great demands on the individual's knowledge and competence to be able to fully participate and shape their
own future.

Conservatives have solutions for:
• a shift in spending will continue from
public spending to growth-enhancing
investments including research,
education and transport
• a lower tax level and
simplification of public regulations and
reporting requirements for private sector

• make the teaching profession a high status to
motivates the cleverest students
from high school to take
Education

chap- ter 2:

Education
and culture
Content:
2.1
2.2
2.3
2.4
2.5
2.6
2.7
2.8
2.9
2.10

Kindergarten
School
The teacher
Vocational
Higher education
Research
Arts and Culture
Sports and volunteering
Norwegian heritage and language
Media

s. 10
p. 11
s. 13
p. 14
p. 14
p. 16
s. 17
s. 18
s. 19
s. 20

10

EDUCATION AND CULTURE

2.1 Kindergarten
Kindergarten should give children a safe and good care and simultaneously encourage play and development
children's terms.
Nursery development has happened quickly and without the necessary emphasis on the development of content.
The staff is kindergarten important resource. Good quality in the nursery depends on them as
working there.
A great variety of different kindergartens ensures a service that is tailored to the individual child and
individual families. Because language is the basis for children's development, the Right strengthen Norwegian
language environment in the kindergarten.

Conservative solutions:
• improving the quality of kindergarten through
to ensure educator density, educate
several educators and strengthen continuing
further education for employees
• introduce a quality portal where information
that municipalities collect from the
Some nursery, made available to
parents
• introduce an independent audit of
Daycare
• ensure that municipalities facilitate
continuous recording
• require Norwegian skills for employees
kindergartens

• provide the necessary assistance to children who have weak
language skills, and facilitating the
all children must master Norwegian before starting school
• legislate and ensure a genuine equality
of public and private kindergartens and
introduce municipal unit price financing
• provide all kindergartens that meet
municipal requirements for approval,
opportunity to establish themselves
• Income grade parents for payment
low-income families

EDUCATION AND CULTURE

11

2.2 School
A good school gives students knowledge and contribute to social mobility. Norway has a
consistently highly educated population and spend lots of money on education for all. They
Most students find a good learning environment. Norwegian school has all the prerequisites to
lie at the forefront internationally.
The main challenge in the Norwegian school is that too many students can for little after ten years of schooling.
This applies particularly to basic skills such as literacy and numeracy. This means that
too many do not complete or pass secondary education. Secondary education
provides society skilled labor and provide a foundation for higher education and participation
in the workplace. This is very important both for the individual and for society. The Norwegian
education must become more flexible to facilitate lifelong learning.
Norwegian school must be improved to provide feedback to students. Homework must be followed up, and students
must know what is expected of them. There is too much variation in learning outcomes between
municipalities, within municipalities and within each school. Getting a good teacher is too many
Students crucial for whether they succeed or not.
In Norway, the vast majority of students in the public schools. Conservatives aim is that the public school
should be so good that it creates opportunities for all. Right also wish that there should be good
and equitable alternatives to the public schools for students and parents who wish others
deals.

Conservative solutions:
• prioritize students' literacy
numeracy skills throughout
school years - early intervention is the key
mastery and increased learning outcomes

• introduce characters from 5th grade

• identify learning outcomes through
throughout their schooling and ensure full transparency about
results at the school level

• introduce the written final exams in Norwegian,
mathematics and English for all students in
10th stage

• ensure that municipalities apply
development agreements with principals -
local politicians must ensure tight and targeted
monitoring of their schools

• introduce compulsory intensive courses
students who are lagging behind in the transition
the lower and upper secondary
school

• facilitate that parents can choose
elementary school for their children, even across
municipal boundaries

• evaluate the new electives scheme

• give all students and parents in writing
feedback in basic subjects from 1st stage

• introduce learning at all levels - students,
Teachers and parents need to know what students
are expected to have learned at each grade

• allow differentiated teaching when
pedagogical reasons, but pupils
not divided into permanent after professional level

12

• provide opportunity for all students to take subjects
higher level when they are eligible for
it - students with talent must also be given
Development opportunity
• ensure all students a good learning
through continuous efforts to
prevent and combat bullying
• strengthen school health, so it is
available for students who need
help
• requiring that advisors must have
regular training in order to continue
the profession
• facilitate the schools secures daily
physical activity for students
• provide students with reading and writing difficulties
access free PC through school
part of such arrangements
• simplify and reduce the scope of
unnecessary bureaucracy and reporting requirements
• establish a common IT platform for
school - for easier access to digital
learning resources, more efficient operations and
sharing of information in and about school
• ensuring access to establish and operate public
funded private schools as an alternative to
the public school system and re-introduce a
law on independent schools where the requirement for
purposes replaced with a requirement to content
quality. Schools that meet the conditions shall
be entitled to approval, unless such
approval after an overall assessment gets
significant negative consequences for the
public schooling to students. Accredited
should not be able to pay dividends to shareholders
• use texts both on the Norwegian language
Norwegian subject throughout their school life.
Discontinue the scheme with its own character and
exams in regional languages ​​in secondary
secondary school

EDUCATION AND CULTURE

• reintroduce maximum limit for unregulated
absence in secondary schools
• give students in secondary schools
right to school choice, even across
county boundaries
• facilitating international
quality assured education that IB in
primary and secondary schools
• introducing a national goal of 90 percent
of students to complete and pass a
secondary education
• students in secondary schools and in
secondary schools evaluate
education
• carry out experiments with anonymous rectification
of student work
• encourage closer cooperation between
schools, businesses and research institutions, and
develop specialty schools at secondary level and
in secondary schools, for example,
science high school in collaboration with higher
education
• establish a technological schoolbag after
pattern of the Cultural Rucksack
• Strengthen Young entrepreneurship as an important
arena for cooperation between schools and
Working
• provide lifelong right to further education
by repealing the current age limit
• allow continuation of the
high school summer
• Move the written exam before graduation time
• ensure a wide folkehøgskole Deals

EDUCATION AND CULTURE

13

2.3 Teacher
Good governance is essential for student learning. The teacher is the boss in the classroom and responsible for
student learning, and the principal is responsible for school improvement. Right will raise teachers' general
status and reputation in society. The teacher's knowledge workers and the quality of teaching
depends on the teaching staff motivation and professional competence.
Teaching is the school's core business. Yet it is today so career opportunities often
consists in removing from the classroom. Right want the brightest teachers to continue to teach,
and that it should be possible to rise through the ranks as a teacher and become a specialist with increased prestige, increased wages and
increased status. Since it is of national importance, ensuring the best teachers and to raise the status of
teaching profession, according to Right the state to contribute to the financing of new career paths. The main
innovation in schools must be run by professionally strong teachers.

Conservative solutions:
• require grade of 4 or better in Norwegian,
mathematics and English for admission to
teacher training, and that all teachers, from 1.
Steps must have a major in the core subjects
they teach

• strengthen the practical pedagogical
Education (PPU) to ensure qualified
Teachers, especially in secondary schools and in
High School

• develop a certification scheme for teachers
tied back to the right and duty
relevant continuing education through
vocational course

• open for new professions in school
and improve cooperation between schools
and business, for example through
management development programs
combines teacher and management training
for graduates with master's or
doctorate in natural sciences

• retain and recruit the most competent
teachers by increasing wages, flexible
working arrangements, mentoring systems and
support

• introduce teacher II and Instructor II positions in
respectively primary and secondary
training patterned professor IIordningen in higher education

• establish new career paths in schools by introducing new categories of employment as a teacher specialist, such as first teacher and Lecturer,
respectively primary and secondary
training. It should be predictable,
objective and agreed criteria for promotion,
developed in collaboration with teachers' organizations and municipalities. The state will contribute
to finance additional salary for realizing
these positions

• provide teachers and school administrators on the individual
school, in consultation with the Educational Psychology
Service (PPT), the authority to make decision
special educational measures

• do about teacher training for a five-year
Masters Education

• help ensure that other professions in school
frees up time for teachers and school leadership to
concentration on pupils' learning outcomes

14

EDUCATION AND CULTURE

2.4 Vocational
The aim of vocational education is to ensure good professionals. We will continue to need that many
choosing a vocational education. Right will raise the status of vocational subjects.
It is serious that there are more than 50 percent dropout at some of the vocational fields. Especially
large is apostasy among those students who do not get an apprenticeship after two years in school.

Conservative solutions:
• increase Apprentice subsidy
• introduce more ambitious targets for public
businesses taking on apprentices
• change the Private Education Act and allow
industry-driven training paths throughout
or part of vocational education programs and stimulate
new models for cooperation between
industry associations and the public
the school
• allow alternative schooling, such
such as training programs in business,
and expand Practice Scheme

• further develop the offer to students who will
combine certificate and matriculation,
such as technical general subjects (TAFmodellen)
• give more students who have taken skilled workers;
opportunity to higher education
based on academic and non-formal learning (Y-road)
• ensure a workplace correcting common subjects
in vocational education programs,
so that students get a more vocationally relevant
teaching in these subjects, and give the right to
vehicles after obtained a certificate

• strengthen the opportunity for exchange model
vocational training, where students alternate
between training in schools and companies under
all the various courses, and make it possible to
take a certificate in English

2.5 Higher education
Norway is part of a global and knowledge-based economy. Movements of capital, knowledge
and jobs happening today almost regardless of frontiers. The basis for value creation
and future welfare is a well-developed knowledge society.
With a high Norwegian cost level is knowledge a prerequisite to compete in
international competition. To meet this challenge requires large investments in
education and research and expertise and ability to convert knowledge into wealth creation.

EDUCATION AND CULTURE

15

Right To secure the welfare and strengthening Norway's competitiveness by investing a larger share of
oil wealth in knowledge and innovation.
To keep up with the international competition must larger share of Norwegian research
be second to none. It requires universities and colleges who maintain a high standard and
Some universities in the world.
In coming years, higher education institutions compete with the best the world
above. Without a sharpening of quality, we will lose this contest. Financial Mechanism
must lead us to focus extra on the academic communities that have the ability to compete internationally in
collaboration with the best research groups in the world.
It is vital that professional education at universities and colleges can
meet society's needs for labor. In a global expertise and the labor market is
it is valuable for Norwegian students to study abroad, while it is valuable that
foreign students coming to Norway.

Conservative solutions:
• increase basic funding to
educational institutions and create greater
equality in the financing of state and
private educational institutions
• evaluate the structure of higher education and
Financial for universities and colleges. To achieve diversity
and quality that is internationally
competitive, institutions must
develop different profiles and sharpen their
experts. Criteria for approval of
universities and colleges are reviewed
to ensure this. Until these evaluations
are hereby approved no new
Universities
• A commitment to developing outstanding
study by exploiting
scientific expertise environments
the model of Centres of Excellence
research
• increase the admission capacity for the engineering and
technological

• raise income ceiling for students and
regulate financial support in line with price and
costs
• introduce financial support for the first year of
Bachelor programs in non-Western countries and to
freshman year of studies in the US
• build more student housing and change
Welfare Association so that it opens
for public-private partnerships and new
development models, and encourage
construction of several private student housing
• strengthen the technical vocational colleges and
reintroduce state funding of
vocational colleges
• strength NOKUT (Norwegian Agency for
Quality Assurance in Education) opportunity
to quality control and improve
programs and institutions. NOKUT
reports shall be readily accessible for
public.
• stimulate universities and colleges
to establish more flexible decentralized
education

16

EDUCATION AND CULTURE

2.6 Research
Research creates future. Knowledge and innovation will be the driving forces in safeguarding Norwegian
jobs and further develop the Norwegian welfare model.
The Norwegian investments in research and innovation is under the OECD average and
far behind the rest of Scandinavia. We distinguish ourselves out in that industry R & D investment
is low. Meanwhile, Norway scores for poorly in international rankings of countries
innovativeness, and the same applies to cooperation between academia and industry. This
weakens our competitiveness in the long term.
Conservatives have higher ambitions on behalf of knowledge nation Norway. The public
investment in research must to a higher level and keep pace with developments in other
countries. But it also must be be far more attractive to invest risk capital in research and
innovation.

Conservative solutions:
• strengthen research to reach target
that research should amount to 3 per cent of
GDP by 2030
• establish a new Research Fund within
Government Pension Fund Global, which
ROI earmarked for research
• increase investment in advanced scientific
equipment and other infrastructure for research,
so that Norwegian researchers gaining access to equipment
of world
• ensure quality through betting
more targeted at outstanding
research centers and universities
in the world, the model of Global
Centers of Expertise
• introduce a competition based
financing that supports
universities' strategies
internationalization, allowing Norway
stronger position in the international
labor

• strengthen research council open applications
which is of vital importance to product quality,
such as Centres of Excellence
(SFF), Centre for Research-
Innovation (SFI), Outstanding Young
researchers (YFF) and independent projects (FRIPRO)
• work for further internationalization
Norwegian research, through both active
participation in EU framework programs and
through the development of bilateral cooperation
with leading research nations
• strengthening programs for commercialization
research results and ensure increased funding
in seed funds to "early stage innovation"
to create new businesses and jobs
with origins in knowledge institutions
• stimulate more research in business
and stronger interaction between
academia and industry, including
through SkatteFUNN

EDUCATION AND CULTURE

• reintroduce and improve
donation strengthening scheme
• strengthen the industrial research
by increasing the appropriations for
The Research Council's program-guided
Innovation Arena (BIA) and other
business oriented engagements
• increase the number of vacancies and recruitment
review working conditions for researchers
to secure recruitment and stability in
research

17

• establish a government scholarship scheme
give Norwegian researchers the opportunity to investigate and
teaching by outstanding foreign
institutions, and a similar scheme
to draw international leader
researchers to Norway
• establish a system of fast track
processing applications for work permits for foreign oppholdsog
researchers

2.7 Arts and Culture
Cultural life helps to challenge ourselves and to open ourselves to the unknown. Art and culture has a
intrinsic value and should not be primarily used as a tool for achieving other goals.
Norway has a rich and diverse culture. In recent years we have seen a clear tendency to
concentration of power and examples of political interference. A free and independent cultural needs
not become unilaterally dependent on government funding and the concentration of power which easily follows from
this.

Conservative solutions:
• secure government funding of key
cultural institutions and removing state
substantive constraints faced
cultural institutions
• strengthen private financing
culture through such
gift reinforcement schemes and better
facilitation of private funds and
foundations
• facilitate increased entrepreneurship and
innovation in cultural life
• reducing bureaucracy in the application
cultural sector

• ensure a decentralized culture and strength
professional circles outside Oslo
• maintain a strong Norwegian
Film and strengthen regional
film funds and centers
• introduce an incentive scheme for foreign
Film Production Norway
• strengthen the free field, band,
korbevegelsen
• improve services at the schools

18

EDUCATION AND CULTURE

2.8 Sport and volunteering
Norwegians' participation in sports and volunteering is best in the world. This is one of
reasons that trust between people is so high in Norway. This confidence is based on meetings
between people in the small communities, whether it is in the band, church, football
or volunteer center.
Sport and physical activity is of great significance for public health. Right to bet on sports and
the possibility for anyone who wants it, can participate in physical activity. Top- and recreational sports live
in an interplay. Major international championships provide important inspiration and strengthens the breadth.
Norway should therefore regularly host nation for international championships.
The strength of the Norwegian democracy forward will equal the strength of trust between people,
and between the individual and government. Conservatives want therefore volunteering which grows
from below, independent of government control. There is growing social divisions between the Norwegians
participating in voluntary work, and those who do not. The contents of the voluntary commitment
has changed from being based membership to be activity based.
When the government hands out money to the voluntary sector, there is often establishes which activities
wishes implemented. For that volunteering forward to progress on their own terms, must
framework adapted to a new reality. Volunteering must be given greater opportunity to become
financially independent of the state.

Conservative solutions:
• improve the system of VAT compensation
for NGOs
• increase the tax deduction for donations to volunteers
organizations and expand the system to also
involve local organizations and projects
• examine the financial
framework for voluntary activities,
with the aim of reducing bureaucracy and
politicization
• provide voluntary bodies opportunity
to operate public buildings used
culture, sports or other voluntary purposes
• prepare an overall plan for
plant development and build more
national arena. More sports to be done
eligible for grants from tipping funds for
construction of facilities

• strength sports base funding and
faster development of local facilities,
through as quickly as possible to increase the sport
share of the profits from the Norwegian Tipping
64 percent
• ensure athletes' ability to
Combining sports and education, and strengthen
toppidrett expertise in various
sports in secondary school and
colleges
• abolish the ban on professional boxing
• continue a gaming policy which safeguards
interests of gamblers and ensures that
income from all types of gambling in Norway
accrues profit purposes. Decision on new
game concepts taken by Lotteries and Gaming Authority

EDUCATION AND CULTURE

19

2.9 Norwegian heritage and language
Knowledge and experience of our own heritage strengthens the sense of identity and provides
social affiliation. Knowledge of their own culture offers security and good conditions
to meet any external influence on a generous and constructive manner.
Our ability to civic participation is especially related to language. Good language smoked is therefore not only
a cultural-political objective, but also a prerequisite for our participation in democracy.

Conservative solutions:
• underpin both language variants
The main objective of replacing the current law
to get answers to their language form with a
straight for employees of state and language neutral
municipalities to use their own language variant
• strengthen Nordic language co
• ensure the production of Norwegian fiction and
literature
• Strengthen Cultural Heritage Fund and work
folk music, folk dancing and crafts, as well as
small and conservation sciences
• providing tax credits for restoration costs
relating to listed buildings

• prepare libraries of digital
everyday, and ensure the continued free lending
Literature
• increasing digitalization in museums and archives
• pursue a bokpolitikk which strengthens
interest in reading and safeguards the development of
Norwegian authorship, and say no to Boklöv
• encourage conservation through active use of
heritage, often with new and alternative
business
• allow local authorities greater influence
over spelling of name

20

EDUCATION AND CULTURE

10/2 Media
Digitization of media involves fundamental changes in the media, both in
regards the public participation, media products and editorial working.
The main challenge in media policy is to facilitate good news production,
sustainable newsrooms and broad public conversation in the future of digital
media society. Media policy must therefore stimulate creativity and innovation, while
as the Free Press traditions and core values ​​are safeguarded.

Conservative solutions:
• modernize the media policy
funding agencies to a digital world
through the greatest possible equality
of the media, regardless of the technological
Platform

• secure copyrights to intellectual property

• adapt own limitations for media
the desire to ensure media pluralism

• promote net neutrality and open
solutions to ensure competition

• equate newspapers and e-newspapers through
establish a common, low VAT rate

• facilitate updated infrastructure
for the media in a digital world

• continue license financing NRK and

• allow political advertising on TV

increase the proportion of external productions. NRK
must not use its robust economy
a way that impairs free institutions
revenue base

chap- ter 3:

health

Content:
3.1
3.2
3.3
3.4
3.5
3.6
3.7
3.8
3.9
3.10

Patient healthcare
Local health
Hospital
Faster medical care
Mental Health
Rehabilitation
Rus
Public health
Caring
Gene and biotechnology

s. 24
s. 24
s. 25
p. 26
s. 27
s. 28
s. 28
s. 29
s. 29
s. 31

24

HEALTH

3.1 Patients' healthcare
Norway has a good health care where most people get help regardless of status and income. Security
for help when in need of treatment and care, is a mainstay of the Norwegian
welfare model. At the same time that many of those in greatest need of assistance, not
get what they are entitled to.
It is a public responsibility to provide good medical care for everyone. Therefore Right that
everyone should get necessary health care when they need it.
Neither addicts or people with mental health problems receive adequate help. Health Care
saves many lives, but often fail when there is a need for training and rehabilitation makes
it is possible to live an active and good life. Cancer patients find that it takes too long to get a
diagnosis, and lack access to newer treatments. Many people wait too long for simple
intervention, even if there is spare capacity in private. Too many are injured and die as a result
defects and deficiencies in healthcare.
Own interests in the health and care sector does not contribute sufficiently to equalize social inequality
or to shield them with large expenses and low incomes. Deductibles also prevents
interaction and is not related to priorities in healthcare. There is a need to
change deductibles so that they act in line with the health policy objectives. There is also a need
to make a larger portion of prioritization decisions in health care to political decisions
and to create arenas where policies and subjects meet for discussion.

3.2 Local health
It is necessary to strengthen health care services (primary care)
and ensure a better coordination of health and care services. A strengthened primary health
will give patients a better deal with less distance to travel, improved quality of treatment and
assurance that resources are used early to prevent a worsening of the disease progression.

Conservative solutions:
• develop public health services
municipalities and encourage more
healthcare co-located in local health center
where GPs make up the core

• improving the quality of the municipal
Health Care through
to secure a larger interdisciplinary breadth increase
recruitment of qualified health personnel
and introduce competency in health
care sector

HEALTH

• improve access to GPs
through better capacity and introducing
modern communications technology,
introducing reimbursement schemes that make it
easier to provide comprehensive services in cooperation
with psychologists, nurses and other
health professions
• develop a general psychologist deals
municipalities
• open for some of the biggest
municipalities can take over responsibility for
mental health centers
• establishing several health in cooperation
between municipalities and hospitals to
ensure patients improve health services
where they live, abolish the current municipal
co-funding scheme for hospitals
and introducing direct aid to good
local collaboration projects

25

• provide pregnant women who have traveled to the birthplace
right to follow service if needed
for it, as well as developing midwifery services in
municipalities
• change deductibles so that people
with major health expenses and poor economy
will be screened, while making it
better link between priorities
and the goal of continuous
healthcare deductible system
• increase support for dental care for them
who have large dental expenses and bad
economy
• strengthen health centers and
school health services, and enhancing expertise
when it comes to dealing with families in crisis
• improving the quality of the emergency service by
introducing broader national requirements for the content
and the scope of service

3.3 Hospitals
There are wide variations in the quality of services at different hospitals. Right will require
quality certification of Norwegian hospitals and ensure transparency about the quality of the offer
given. It must be introduced national minimum standards for what various types of hospitals should
contain the offer and expertise. Bureaucracy and reporting must be reduced.

Conservative solutions:
• adopt a national health and hospital plan
in Parliament, which stipulates clear
priorities for health care and
minimum requirements for content and expertise
for different types of hospital

• ensure effective flow of information about the
individual patient, as well as sufficient
privacy is protected

• lay down the regional health authorities
and replacing them with better national
management of health policy, while
hospitals have greater freedom and responsibility

• conduct extensive surveys
of quality in hospitals, including
extent of the mortality, reoperations and
readmissions

within the framework of a national plan the health and hospital

26

• ensure transparency on quality surveys
and make these available
• Create an "Accident" for
health care and strengthen patients and
relatives' rights
• require quality certification of all
hospital
• strengthen patients' rights by violations
the treatment period
• establish multidisciplinary diagnostic centers
ensures faster detection of cancer and
other diseases
• change the criminal law provisions when it
applies transmission, so that they are in
compliance with UN Recommendations
• establishing a stronger national coordination
and financing ICT investments in
health care

HEALTH

• transfer responsibility for buildings and
the infrastructure of health care to a separate
healthcare company and open up for use by
public-private partnerships for investments
in heavy equipment
• create additional legal basis for contract specialists
and establish a better division of labor
between hospitals and polyclinics
contract specialists
• improving the quality of emergency departments at
hospitals. It must be doctors
guard with expertise and experience from
Emergency Medicine
• ensure safe and stable supply of blood
to safeguard the safety and quality
in health care, by allowing approved
donors make giving blood regardless of sexual
Orientation provided that it harmonises with
health professional requirements

3.4 Faster medical care
Right will open up health care by releasing all great powers and give all patients
freedom of choice. A multitude of health care will increase the quality and ensure more rapid assistance.

Conservative solutions:
• introduce free choice of therapy on it
expense of the state, so that whoever needs
necessary medical care, you get an offer as
promptly

• introduce a more effective "Faster back" scheme.

• require that hospitals in determining the medical term for treatment also
determines the time and place for treatment.
National health authorities (HELFO) granted
responsibility for ensuring that treatment is given by
another hospital if the deadline can not
redeemable at the same hospital

• establish a system of pharmacist controlled
prescription to make it easier to buy
common medicines at pharmacies

• Faster adopt new medicines and new
Treatment in Norway

HEALTH

• establish a Nordic collaboration
advanced therapies that ensure
that Norden quickly develop and adopt new
knowledge
• establish one journal per capita to
ensure better coordination. Patients should have
sovereignty over their own health information and
ensured a good privacy

27

• develop "Minh Else» portals to become
a secure and user-friendly channel for digital
contact with health care. The portal must provide
access to quality assured information
can strengthen patients' mastery of their own
health
• establish a 48-hour deadline for the commencement of
diagnostics for suspected cancer

3.5 Mental Health
There are still major weaknesses and shortcomings in the supply of people with mental health problems.
Mental health care has long been under prioritized in health care, and the Conservatives will therefore strengthen
efforts in this area. Efforts in preventive measures must be strengthened in schools and
working life by counteracting bullying and exclusion.

Conservative solutions:
• strengthen the municipal housing, behandlingsog follow-up services for persons with
mental health problems
• prepare a plan to provide better services for
people with severe mental disorders
and poor living conditions
• introduce requirements to health authorities that
resources for substance abuse and mental separately
itself increases more than the resources of somatic
treatment
• implement measures that contribute to earlier help
thus reducing the use of coercion
• develop mental health services for children
and young people, with emphasis on both the low-threshold
in health centers and school health services,
and by strengthening children's and
adolescent psychiatry

• strengthen the interdisciplinary cooperation and
aftercare across substance abuse treatment and
mental health care, to ensure a coherent
offers for large groups with complex
disorders
• introducing free choice of therapy, so that it becomes
easier to choose the treatment that works, and
which can commence quickly
• introduce own ambulances affiliated psychiatry
to ensure better skills at admission and reduced stress for both
patient and police
• strengthen day care for people with
mental health problems

28

HEALTH

3.6 Rehabilitation
Using good emergency medicine and better treatment can increasingly more lives saved.
However, there are major deficiencies in the provision within habilitation and rehabilitation, which leads
missed opportunity for many people. It is not sufficient only to provide emergency medical assistance,
health care must also contribute as much as possible to get people back to active life where the
some may participate both in society and in the workplace.

Conservative solutions:
• prepare an escalation plan to strengthen
provision of habilitation and rehabilitation
• extend free choice of hospital to include
rehabilitation
• develop good cooperation and
stable framework surrounding private
rehabilitation institutions that hold
good professional quality

• make an offer based on peer experiences
to patients in need of specialized
habilitation and rehabilitation services
• particular strength habilitation and
rehabilitation services for drug addicts and
children with disabilities
• ensure that children with communication barriers
and their dependents technical aids
and necessary training

3.7 Rus
Wait for addicts who need treatment are too long. Conservatives want a more
dignified and fair treatment of addicts.

Conservative solutions:
• prepare an escalation plan to
strengthen the availability of drug treatment, care,
low threshold health and aftercare
• facilitate a multitude of
treatment and free user choice
• strengthen the availability of support measures for
addicts families, especially for children
and young
• have continued ban on the possession and use
of drugs

• strengthen the social and health
rehabilitation services for those who
participating in MAT,
including securing housing
• open more reception centers for addicts
in the largest cities
• introduce a seamless transition from detoxification to
rehabilitation

HEALTH

29

3.8 Public health
Our health service is not sustainable if developments in the extent of lifestyle diseases
continues. The individual must take greater responsibility for their own health, and society must facilitate
for wise choices. Lack of physical activity and consumption of sugar, fat, alcohol and tobacco leads
huge stress for the individual and for society. Our mental health is emphasized not
strong enough in dealing with public health. Lifestyle diseases are also the main cause
the social inequality in health. At the same time measures for improving public health at all times be weighed against
individuals freedom of choice. Any society must allow citizens make choices for themselves
even as others think is bad.

Conservative solutions:
• strengthen preventive health care,
in particular to counteract the development of
lifestyle-related health problems

• facilitating increased physical activity
population and more physical activity
school and encourage a healthier diet

• cooperate with intercommunal
Open Air and NGOs to
improve public health, including through
physical activity and Outdoors

• include mental health as an equal
part of health promotion

3.9 Caring
Increasing life expectancy and more young people who need nursing care, requiring increased capacity
and quality in the care sector. Increased competence and changes in care services
working methods will help more people to stay at home and to choose their activities. Freedom of choice
care increases the individual's ability to cope with life.

Conservative solutions:
• arrange for everyone to be able to stay
home as long as they want, and could
be self-reliant in everyday life. People
that have been or are in danger of getting a
function reduction, must be offered
everyday rehabilitation
• build enough nursing homes and
shared housing for dementia, so everyone can
be confident that they get help when they have
needed

• increase the use of welfare technology
• make it easier for private building
nursing homes and other housing solutions for seniors
• introduce competence of health care professionals in
the municipal health care law
• introduce national surveys
basis for improving services

30

• remove the municipal cofounding
of the specialist for diagnosis
which mainly affects older, so older
are not discriminated against in health

HEALTH

• strengthen the provision of relief, guidance
and financial compensation for
relatives

• ensure better medical coverage in nursing homes,
including through providing nursing home doctors
the same level as hospital doctors.
Doctors' hours incurred in nursing homes should
could count as apprenticeship and included as
part of the specialization course

• establish that everyone has the right to good palliative
treatment which provides a worthy
end of life, but that respect for
human simultaneously involves
a definite no to euthanasia. Introduce
a government co-financing scheme
establishment of hospice

• create additional teaching nursing
and strengthen the system of teaching home nursing

• stimulate development of personalized
residential and ensuring everyone the opportunity to choose
between different living

• providing services for carrier aid scheme to those who
need help so that they have to deal
to new people

• Housing change rules so that it
is possible to establish communities that
Building Societies

• improve services for dementia patients at home
and the institution, and strengthen research on
dementia

• facilitate the establishment of private
providers within the care sector, too
within municipal services

• establish several centers of excellence and
day centers for dementia

• ensure care needy possibility
social participation and activity, as well as strength
NGOs working with
exuberance for the elderly

• establish a national program for
interdisciplinary geriatrics research
• provide people with comprehensive
assistance needs greater freedom of choice through
a statutory right to choose user-controlled
personal assistance (BPA)

• ensure that care services are characterized
by choice

HEALTH

31

3:10 Gene and Biotechnology
Gene and biotechnology can provide great opportunities for the treatment and prevention of disease,
while it confronts us with new ethical dilemmas. Right will strengthen the ethical boundaries
and the precautionary principle in biotechnology law.
Conservatives want to pursue a policy that ensures that it can be developed and built up new
biotech and pharmaceutical industry in Norway.

Conservative solutions:
• prevent human life sorted out from
abilities
• not to introduce a public offer early
ultrasound for all pregnant women as well as current
offers, as long as it is not documented
positive health benefit for the child or the mother
• say no to surrogacy in Norway

• say no to egg donation
• avoid people being reduced to a
means for others
• say no to research on embryos
• strengthen stem cell research on stem cells
from born people

chap- ter 4:

transport

Content:

4.1
4.2
4.3

Faster and better development
Organization and financing
Road traffic safety

p. 34
s. 35
s. 35

4.4
4.5
4.6
4.7

Public transport
Train
Coastal and harbor
Air transport

s. 36
s. 37
s. 38
s. 39

34

TRANSPORT AND COMMUNICATIONS

4.1 Faster and better development
Norway needs an infrastructure that is adapted to meet future requirements for safety, quality
and availability. More, better and safer roads will link the country together, strengthen our
competitiveness and ensure vigorous communities. A more modern train will make train
more attractive for all travelers, getting more to voluntarily opt out of the car, and compete with road about
goods transport. A well-developed aircraft and vacation offers, good broadband coverage and an effective postog package system are important elements in the future knowledge-based society.
Today, we build roads piecemeal. New financing and development models will help
the road and railway lines are being built faster, and why they are better maintained. Store
developments should be organized into separate companies as public-private partnership (PPP) or
wholly owned government entities with independent profit responsibility.
The Norwegian road and rail network is poorly developed and poorly maintained. Right
believes that needed increased funding for both investments and maintenance, and more
holistic solutions for planning, construction and financing. When the development of roads and
collective solutions is lagging behind population growth, it creates pressure on house prices,
with more commuting, less leisure time and longer queues as a result. Right will have a more efficient
development of better and safer roads, a modern rail network, a forward-looking aviation and
use public transit.

Conservative solutions:
• establish a maintenance fund where
returns will go to upgrading of
roads and railways
• launch major PPP projects (public private partnership) on road or rail
each year
• increase the use of state plan and regulation
on important national developments, there
project or OPS used

• simplify the planning system and have
binding planning agreements between
municipal, county and state with
agreed deadlines for completion
• change the work on the National
Transport so that in the future
more cohesive and they look different
transport branches more in context,
including through scenario thinking

TRANSPORT AND COMMUNICATIONS

35

4.2 Organisation and funding
Investment in road, rail and public transport investment in future competitiveness. Increased
mobility ensures more accessible labor markets, strengthening the competitiveness of Norwegian companies
and increases traffic safety.

Conservative solutions:
• increase of investment in
transport sector sharply
• develop a national highway plan
• remit to the state the roads that were
transferred to the counties through
administrative reform
• add appropriate road and
railways into separate
project companies to ensure faster
realization

cooperation where there is a good funding base and strong local support
• open for some road projects, for
Example ferry relief projects may
For further depreciation
• develop NPRA to become a
purebred, professional builder and add
vehicle and supervising the activities of a
independent road traffic supervision
• adapt the ferry service to traffic trends

• open to new organizational and financing structures within public-private

4.3 Road traffic safety
Many narrow and poorly maintained roads, where traffic lanes are not separated despite heavy traffic,
helps that many lose their lives and are badly injured in accidents. There is a need for a stronger
commitment to road safety. Right will make it safer in traffic and will prioritize
median barriers and multi-lane roads that important safety measures.

Conservative solutions:
• create safer and more secure roads by
building physically separated driving directions
and multi-lane roads to improve
navigability and fewer fatalities and
injured in traffic
• change veinormalene so that threshold for
building physically separated driving directions and
multi-lane roads will be lower

• create a separate reward scheme
increased development of pedestrian and cycle paths
• strengthen efforts flood and landslide prevention,
and ensure that the state takes a responsibility to
clean up when the forces of nature destroys
Infrastructure

36

TRANSPORT AND COMMUNICATIONS

4.4 Public Transportation
Several Norwegian urban regions are facing major challenges due to population growth and
densification. A flexible transport system is required to ensure that future areas and
Towns can handle the expected traffic growth.
For that metropolitan regions should be able to cope with future growth, should focus on public transport
significantly increased. The state must take a greater and more binding financial responsibility for
development of important public transport solutions in urban areas.

Conservative solutions:
• prepare a separate public transit strategy in connection with the National
Transport and roll over this line
with infrastructure plans for road and
train
• strengthen incentives to improve
public transport and ensure that
documented results and future
plans will be the only qualifying
criteria to apply for funding from
reward scheme
• ensure that the government through binding and
LTA commit funding
of operations and investments in public transportation,
so that we achieve our national objectives for
growth in public transport

• strengthen efforts on simpler
transitional arrangements between various
transport, both passenger and
freight transport
• see residential property development and public transit
in the context of planning and
Urban Development
• evaluating and designing policies and licenses
framework for the taxi industry
considering the best possible service
for consumer and predictable
framework conditions for industry
• make traffic flow smarter and more
effective by strengthening the focus on IT /
intelligent transport systems (ITS)

TRANSPORT AND COMMUNICATIONS

37

4.5 Railway
Large parts of the railway network in Norway is ripe for renewal. For the railway shall
be an attractive option, both the quality, availability and punctuality improve. The
requiring a development of RER and InterCity offer around the major cities, as well as
measures to increase capacity for freight traffic by rail on the national routes. Right will make
for a sharp escalation in order to catch up the maintenance backlog on the railroad.

Conservative solutions:
• ensure full development of the double-track
InterCity routes in eastern Norway,
and prioritize passing loop on key
freight routes and rail transport in
and around the major cities
• transform Jernbaneverket to two state
companies: one with responsibility for development
and operation of railway infrastructure and
one with responsibility for performing development
and maintenance of infrastructure for courts, in
competition with other
• dimensioning new railway lines for
250 km / h or more and longer-term build
a network of high-speed rail if
it is profitable

• competitive tendering passenger
trains on several routes
• increase investment in electrification of railway
where today's diesel
• allow regional public transport companies schedule
and buy local trains services of NSB
or other providers, to obtain a
better and more comprehensive coordination of
public transport in and around large cities

38

TRANSPORT AND COMMUNICATIONS

4.6 Coastal and harbor
Norway's long coastline is an important part of our transportation system. Sea transport loser
market share. It is a trend that must be reversed. For Conservatives are important to help get transferred
more of freight transport from road to sea. Safety at sea and a high level of preparedness along the
coast are also important tasks.

Conservative solutions:
• start an interaction program to strengthen
competitiveness of maritime transport
• modernize port law and open for that
ports can be organized as corporations
• a review of relevant legislation,
tax regimes and responsibilities to
getting more freight from road to sea. This includes
national, regional and local
measures in maritime transport issues
• secure operation of Hurtigruten in the interests of
both locals, tourism and
local businesses
• strengthen maritime safety and preparedness against
emissions and accidents at sea

• ensure that Redningsselskapets maritime
rescue and emergency service along
the entire coast can be kept at a reasonable level
• ensure good monitoring of traffic along
Norwegian coast and finish work
upgraded tagging express launch and
main leader
• introduce emissions prohibition to sea for all
ships in Norwegian waters and pursue a
international emissions prohibition to sea
• consider Stad Ship Tunnel as a OPSprosjekt
• provide Accident Investigation Board the opportunity to
investigate serious accidents with pleasure craft

TRANSPORT AND COMMUNICATIONS

39

4.7 Air transport
Air travel is a key part of the Norwegian transport network, and it is important to ensure
framework that ensures a good air supply and the necessary upgrading of
airports and runways. Greater competition between airports will improve conditions for
aviation and stimulate also the competitive aviation. Right believes that Norwegian
airports can be organized as corporations with private and public ownership.

Conservative solutions:
• allow air safety be a government responsibility
• competitive tendering tower and other
air navigation service

• facilitate that local investors
can fund airport expansions
• equate conditions of competition for
public and private airports

chap- ter 5:

economy
and business
Content:

5.1
5.2
5.3

Economic policy
Tax
Simplification and less bureaucracy

s. 42
s. 43
s. 44

5.4
5.5
5.6
5.7
5.8
5.9
5.10

Ownership
Innovation and expertise in business
Tourism
Maritime industries
The petroleum industry
The seafood industry
Agriculture

s. 45
s. 46
s. 47
s. 48
s. 48
s. 49
s. 51

42

ECONOMY AND BUSINESS

5.1 Economic policy
Norwegian cost level is high and out of step with the world around us. Both workplaces and
government finances are becoming increasingly dependent on the petroleum industry. Norwegian economy needs
more legs to stand on. Right will therefore place great emphasis on strengthening the competitiveness of the market
and better resource management in the public sector. The guideline for the use of oil revenues
shall remain unchanged, but the use of money should be turned anti investments in knowledge, infrastructure,
environmental technology and growth-enhancing tax cuts.
Financial markets are global. The financial crisis showed how imbalances in market spreads
and can affect both jobs and nations. It emphasizes the importance of
financial institutions subject to international regulation and supervision. Right add
facilitate competitive conditions for Norwegian financial and want a Nordic / Baltic
harmonization of regulations.
The last eight years have seen a sharp increase in public spending. Along with very
good times in oil-related industries has created pressure on wage levels and the exchange rate. It has again
Norwegian weakened competitiveness and resulted in layoffs in the exposed sector. Norwegian
Economics is thus rendered more vulnerable and more dependent on oil revenues.
Economic growth is essential to finance and develop welfare. To ensure the development of
jobs and business in the country must meet the high cost of offensive
investment in research, education, innovation and modern infrastructure and an efficient
public sector. Right will build on Norway's competitive advantage and contribute to efforts
who can develop the knowledge-based sector. Such efforts are also needed to
solve other important social issues, such as environmental and climate challenges. Right
will have a taxation policy that promotes power dissipation and private ownership and initiative.

Conservative solutions:
• keep track of the Norwegian economy and thus
help to secure jobs in
competitive sector

to meet its obligations, and
to avoid any excessive reduction of
competitive sector

• ensure a better balance between public
and the private sector, and ensure that growth
in public spending over time is not greater
than growth in gross domestic product
Mainland Norway by turning growth
public spending from consumption to
investment in knowledge and infrastructure

• use a larger portion of the return
from Government Pension Fund Global
transport, research and development,
environmental technology and growth-promoting skatteog tax relief

• stick to the guidelines for
use of money from the Government Pension Fund
abroad to provide security for the State

• increase investment in research and development
(R & D), including R & D contracts between
private and public sectors
• developing an innovative and effective public
Sector

ECONOMY AND BUSINESS

• develop roads, railways, ports, shipping lanes
and other infrastructure that is essential
Norway's competitiveness, and adopt
new and faster development methods,
public-private partnership (PPP)
• go through the rules and organization of application processes for labor to
ensure faster access to highly qualified labor, also from countries outside the European Economic Area
• develop a diverse and private ownership
and reduce government ownership in Norwegian
business
• strengthen the Competition Authority as an independent
government agency and remove government
role as appellate court for the Competition Authority by establishing an independent complaints board for competition. The Competition Authority shall

43

also see that competition in local
Markets are satisfactory
• reintroduce decision competence
Board for Public Procurement for
creating a low threshold of appeal for small
and medium-sized enterprises
• simplify the law on public procurement
and make it easier for smaller, innovative
players participate in the competition to win
tenders
• provide the high-tech defense firms
competitiveness through robust
repurchase agreements
• have a national mapping program
for Norwegian mineral resources and develop
a strategy to utilize these in a
environmentally sound manner

5.2 Tax
Right will pursue a tax policy that ensures the financing of the welfare society. Level and
device on taxes should motivate to work, promoting power dissipation and private
ownership and encourage environmentally friendly behavior.
Norway has primarily an efficient tax system. The progression in the tax system ensures that they
earners, also pay the most in taxes. The tax on low and ordinary incomes are however
still too high and must be reduced. Wealth tax draining capital from Norwegian jobs and do
it less profitable to save and invest. Therefore it must be gradually reduced and eventually eliminated.
Tax morale is generally good in Norway. Yet there are too many who evade tax. It means
others must pay more tax than necessary. Right therefore combating undeclared work and
tax evasion.
Right will gradually reduce taxes which weakens the motivation to work, and that
inhibits investment in Norwegian workplaces. Pace and scope of tax cuts
must be adapted to the situation in the Norwegian economy.

44

ECONOMY AND BUSINESS

Conservative solutions:
• pursue policies that ensure that it pays
to work
• have a tax system that ensures that all the
tax ability to pay tax

• increase the exemption card limit
• make it more profitable to invest in
new assets through more favorable
depreciation rates

• remove the inheritance tax

• reduce the tax rate on gains from the
sales of agricultural enterprises and
agricultural properties to 28 percent

• reduce taxes on low and usual
salaries

• use tax policy to do
it profitable to act environmentally friendly

• make it more profitable to go from social security
to work, for example by introducing an
time-limited job tax credit

• say no to residential tax

• raise the threshold for the surtax,
so people with normal incomes must
pay surtax

• ensure fairer taxation of pensioners

• scale down and eventually eliminate
wealth tax

• strengthen the system of Housing Savings for
youth (BSU)

5.3 Simplification and less bureaucracy
Needless bureaucracy incurred by Norwegian taxpayers higher costs and valiant community
good labor. Businesses' competitiveness is declining due to inflicted administrative
tasks and unnecessary time consumption. Entrepreneurs, business owners and employees must receive pestering
its value creation.
The public services must be made more accessible. Right will show confidence in citizens
and hand over more decisions to the individual.

Conservative solutions:
• implement measures to reduce overall
the private sector's cost of living
regulatory requirements by 25 percent
• introduce an independent regelråd by model
of corresponding body in Sweden
• pull-employed into work
simplifying the public sector and try out new
arrangements before they are implemented

• develop a simplified legislative and regulatory framework
small and medium enterprises
• increase the limit for exemption from
audit requirements
• develop Altinn and be aimed at
business and industry will only have to report
same information once to the
public

ECONOMY AND BUSINESS

45

• ensure that public audience offices
have opening hours that are better adapted
for people's everyday lives, and that several holds
Saturday open

• allow Sunday opening of shops

• make more public services available
on-line, so that they can be used independently
opening hours
• introduce a self-service network solutions for withdrawals
parental leave

• allow Vinmonopolet are open all
days it is allowed to sell beer (including
Christmas, New Years Eve, Easter Saturday and
Whit Sunday), and allow the sale of alcohol at
Election Day

• establish a system of pharmacist controlled
prescription to make it easier to buy
common medicines at pharmacies

• allow municipalities to have alcohol sales
shop to at 22:00 on weekdays and
Saturdays

• introduce a system of liquor store
Store in areas without liquor store outlets,
within the framework of the EEA Agreement

5.4 Ownership
Norway has a large government ownership involvement, but a weak private ownership environment. Strengths
and diverse private ownership environments is important to develop strong and sustainable
business environments and industry clusters.
Right believes that the state today is too great owner in Norwegian business and want to reduce
the total state ownership. State ownership can be justified by specific national
regard, but state ownership should be predictable and professionally. Right will strengthen
freeholder democracy, so that everyone gets the chance to own their own homes, run their own
business and participate as a shareholder in the business world.

Conservative solutions:
• remove the inheritance tax

• say no to residential tax

• scale down and eventually eliminate
wealth tax

• strengthen the system of Housing Savings for
youth (BSU)

• gradually reducing state ownership

• support the creation of a low-threshold
Innovation Stock Exchange to connect businesses and
private savings

• increase the tax deduction to encourage employees
to buy shares in their own company
• strengthen tax benefit of private
pension savings

46

ECONOMY AND BUSINESS

5.5 Innovation and expertise in business
Knowledge and expertise developed over many years is the basis for a great deal of Norwegian
business and employment. Many established companies are betting on the renewal by investing in
research and development of skills and technology, but at the same time, we also see an increasing number of
establishments of pure knowledge enterprises.
The high cost in Norway means that we must increase productivity and lead an industrial policy
that strengthen Norwegian companies' adaptability, research and opportunities for
commercialization. Industries such as ICT and "life sciences" are examples of how competence
will play a central role in the future business. These are industries that both creates value
itself and contributes to increased competitiveness as well other industries that in public
sector.
Conservative policy for simplification, better framework and knowledge in school is very important too
for these industries' growth. Right will also pursue a policy that ensures that public sector
take greater advantage of the possibilities of knowledge firms creates.

Conservative solutions:
• use a larger portion of the return
from Government Pension Fund Global
transport, research and development,
environmental technology and growth-promoting skatteog tax relief

• increase the tax deduction to encourage employees
to buy shares in their own company

• increase investment in research and development
(R & D), including through research and development contracts
between industry and the public

• develop a guideline and policies
public-private innovation collaboration
(OPI), so that public tenders are getting bigger
innovation effect

• simplify the law on public procurement
and make it easier for smaller, innovative
players participate in the competition to win
tenders
• strengthen nationwide
innovation programs, especially within
innovation Norway
• use clusters as a driving force for
innovation, especially when betting on National
Centres of Expertise (NCE program) and
boot Global Centres of Expertise
• develop a simplified legislative and regulatory framework
small and medium enterprises

• introduce neutral VAT in the state, so
that several private service providers can help
to solve the common tasks

• ensure a future-oriented ICT strategy
better digital services for citizens
and more efficient use of resources in both the government and
municipalities
• build one platform for secure ID and
communication in the state and municipalities
• make more services available on-line
to ensure easier access residents
government offices also outside
office hours

ECONOMY AND BUSINESS

• demand that more public data,
including Norwegian Mapping Authority, shall be open and
available
• strengthen incentives that connect
educational with entrepreneurial environments,
and that reward the institutions that

47

develops operational and efficient venues
knowledge sharing and innovation
• pursue a business policy that
increasingly recognizes female
entrepreneurship

5.6 Tourism
Tourism is one of the world's fastest growing industries. It provides jobs and local development,
not least in many rural municipalities. Tourism and export industries can benefit greatly from increased
cooperation. Norway has a breathtaking scenery, a rich diversity of cultural heritage and a cultural life that
catches international attention on more and more areas. This provides great opportunities for
destination development.

Conservative solutions:
• establish a new national tourism strategy in
Parliament and prioritize clearly within
public efforts tourism

• ensure a more targeted marketing efforts
by collecting resources in larger
destination companies

• coordinate efforts
tourism strategy, establish a clear
supervision of work and make a good
anchoring of the measures in the tourism industry

• ensure continued competition in the aviation sector

• facilitate the local food and drink
greater extent can be part of
tourism product
• give municipalities greater opportunities
to facilitate environmentally friendly
tourism activities also within protected
Areas

• review and soften regulations for
fishing tourism
• introduce mobile tax office
Foreign Workers
• open for product samples and limited
alcohol sales directly from the manufacturer, and
If necessary, work to change EUlovgivningen on field

48

ECONOMY AND BUSINESS

5.7 Maritime industries
A viable shipping industry contributes to the population along the coast and provide livelihoods for
businesses in the supply and equipment industry. The maritime industries is one of three global
knowledge hub in Norway, and is important for future value creation and competitiveness.
To retain maritime expertise in Norway believes Right that the framework conditions for
shipping industry must be in line with the regulatory framework in the EU. It is also important that
Norway also contributes to developing an international instrument to safeguard provisions relating to
security, environment and economy.

Conservative solutions:
• contribute to more environmentally friendly fuels taken into
use in industry

• ensure good monitoring of traffic along
Norwegian coast

• ensure a competitive
net wage scheme for Norwegian seamen

• secure competitive Norwegian
shipping registers (NOR and NIS)

• introduce emissions prohibition to sea for all ships
Norwegian waters

• For a fee and tax regime that strengthens
short sea shipping

• promote an effective international
discharge prohibition into the sea from ships, and for that
ports must develop reception facilities
waste

• change the fees and charges so that
environmentally safe technology and design
not punished financially

• work for international rules to
improve environmental standards for ships

5.8 The petroleum industry
Oil and gas resources has given Norway substantial revenues and will continue to do so for many
years. The oil age is extended both by upgrading existing fields, development of
new fields and new technology and knowledge. A continued high level of activity in the petroleum sector
necessary for the Norwegian supplier industry can be further developed in new directions and to new
markets.
Use of fossil fuels is the main cause of anthropogenic emissions of greenhouse gases.
Meanwhile, production on the Norwegian continental shelf is relatively low greenhouse gas emissions, and Norwegian gas
will be an important part of Europe's energy supply for decades. Petroleum activities in
new areas must be combined with strict requirements for environment, safety and emergency preparedness and to
coexistence with other industries, particularly the fisheries and aquaculture industries.

ECONOMY AND BUSINESS

49

Conservative solutions:
• invest in research and development that can provide
greater recovery of oil and gas from each
field
• electrifying new fields where there are climatic
and economically viable
• strengthening competition and diversity
on the shelf to ensure technological and
environmental development and use State
Direct Financial Interest (SDFI)
to stimulate transferability of licenses and
more competition on the shelf

petroleum, but with strict
requirements for environmental, safety and preparedness and to
coexistence with other industries
• develop schemes that stimulate
companies to cooperate
joint development of existing oil and
gas fields to increase recovery and better
resource utilization
• increase the recovery rate on the Norwegian shelf by
requiring plan for improved recovery at
renewal of licenses

• strengthen Petoro through increasing company
business flexibility
and finance company through
cash flow from SDFI. Constraints
of the company's activity and development
managed through commission documents and
Board composition

• strengthen the NPD and
PSA to safeguard
management of a larger and more
complicated Norwegian shelf

• open for petroleum activities in promising
areas off northern Norway, including
impact of Nordland VI and VII
and Troms II with a view to open these for

• Make sure also that onshore
ensured for the appropriate parts of the country when
petroleum operations move north

• improve oil spill preparedness and assess
collecting all the safety at sea as a whole
ministry

5.9 The seafood industry
Norwegian marine and coastal areas are rich in resources. Fisheries and Aquaculture is our second largest
export. Right will ensure sustainable management of fisheries and aquaculture resources and
work to improve market access for Norwegian seafood abroad. It is in that context
crucial to look at the fishing industry in its entirety, and adapt laws and regulations to the
market challenges facing the industry.
Norwegian fisheries are world leaders, and the Norwegian fishing industry is in a
healthy development. It must be established conditions that ensure continued competitiveness and
market access.
The aquaculture industry has the potential to multiply production. It is necessary to ensure that
this growth occurs in an ecologically sustainable manner.

50

ECONOMY AND BUSINESS

Fisheries and Aquaculture represents one of the key industrial and knowledge clusters we have in
Norway. One of the most important roles Norway can play in the future is to use this expertise
in international projects that ensure healthy food for a growing world population. Norwegian
foreign and trade policy must increasingly reflect the fact that Norway is a large seafood nation.

Conservative solutions:
• pursue a policy that ensures a spread
ownership and differentiated fishing fleet.
Structural policy is designed to facilitate a
profitable, diversified and sustainable industry
where all are given equal opportunities in the
different fleet groups. As many as possible should
could be the owner or part owner of a vessel
• ensure that the Raw Fish adds a good
the basis for an efficient and well-organized
marketplace and good resource
• have quotas to ensure sustainable
populations, while the distribution of
quotas must be the most predictable.
Fisheries management must ensure active
population monitoring and efforts to combat illegal
fishing. Changes to the quota year should be considered
to ensure a better fit for a more
market oriented fishing patterns
• work to improve market access for
abroad for fish and fishery products, also
through bilateral trade agreements
• organize FSA allowing regions
acting in a comprehensive and unified
manner. Authority must be seen as a
service institution and as a resource for
Development

• ensure a better utilization of
resources by facilitating the capture and
production of new species
• ensure that all activity in sensitive marine and coastal areas taking into account the risk of long-term damage to marine resources
• collect administrative responsibility for
all wild fish stocks in Fisheries and
Coastal Affairs
• give municipalities incentives to
facilitating industry by allowing more of
license fee go directly to the affected
municipalities
• replace the current license allocation on salmon
and trout with objective criteria
as environmental sustainability and access to
localities
• ensure better coordination of the
various sector authorities, so that we get a
faster and more comprehensive management

ECONOMY AND BUSINESS

51

5:10 Agriculture
Agriculture is vital for food and crop production, settlement and cultural landscape in Norway.
Conservatives want to create a viable agricultural sector by facilitating profitable operations
and increased food production. Agricultural policy's most important task will be to give the farmer
the best opportunities to create their own income and utilize their land. The farmer is independent
employed and therefore have stable conditions. Agriculture continues our long
traditions, and should have the main responsibility for delivering assured quality. The cultural landscape
our are created and maintained through the use and activity in line with developments in agriculture.
Increased grants, production constraints, Norwegian salary and customs barriers has given Norwegian agriculture
a very high cost. Norwegian salary and cost and price trends involves high
production costs in Norwegian agriculture. With good political framework and a stepwise
restructuring, the profitability of Norwegian agriculture strengthened. Conservative policy is to make agriculture
best equipped to supply Norwegian food to consumers in competition with international
actors. Right To ensure continued Norwegian food production also by new international
trading conditions.
Reindeer herding is an important industry for food production and livelihoods in parts of the country, and
a prerequisite for Sami culture and society. The industry operates in areas which have a
fragile ecological balance, and who are exposed to climate change. Ecologically sustainable
reindeer husbandry is essential that the industry should also be financially and culturally
sustainable. Reindeer husbandry must be ensured framework that allows it eventually becomes less
depending on government transfers.

Conservative solutions:
• make agriculture less dependent on
governmental transfers, decreasing agricultural
costs and give farmers new and better
Monetization
• create a clearer distinction between area support
and production support and simplify
the contents of the support types

• evaluate the content of the agricultural agreement
and aligning it with the ordinary
budget process, while
To keep negotiating institute
agriculture
• less use subsidy rates to
thwart economies of scale in agriculture

• supporting organic farming in line with
"Conventional" farming and giving farmers opt
opportunity cost coverage through
increased prices

• review and licenses
quota schemes in the agricultural sector, with
aim to adapt and increase production in
According to market needs

• use targeted tax cuts
agriculture in order to increase production and
profitability

• raising the limits of volume and number
participants in joint operations and guarantee stability in
framework for joint operations

52

ECONOMY AND BUSINESS

• consider a more competitively neutral
market regulation scheme to ensure
power distribution, matmangfold and equal
availability of raw material for all stakeholders

• remove inheritance provision of the Constitution
and modernize inheritance law

• gradually, over several years, prepare
Norwegian agriculture on new international
trading conditions

• strengthening the private forestry and rural areas
by selling spaces from which Statsskog
equivalent to those acquired in recent years

• retain an import protection

• make it easier to get compensation for
crop damage, if possible by supporting
use of market-based arrangements
insurance

• reasons of readiness to work to strengthen
self supply of food
• strengthen agriculture the opportunity to build
equity for future investments
• soften the rules for using
joint-stock corporation form for parts
of business on an agricultural
- To reduce risk and better
possibility of access to capital
• implement measures to ensure that Norway
is at the forefront when it comes
animal welfare. FSA is intended to prevent,
uncover and follow up animal rage values
• give individual farmers greater control over the
own property by repealing the permanent residence,
Sharing bans and price controls, while
which operate obligation retained
• reduce the tax rate on the gain on sale
of businesses in agriculture to ordinary
capital taxation

• place greater emphasis on climate policy
objectives in the management of the Norwegian forests

• implement a powerful simplification and
reduction of agricultural bureaucracy
• take care of good topsoil, but balance
soil protection against major societal needs
• facilitate competence development
measures in agriculture
• prepare a White Paper on
sustainable reindeer
• change the Reindeer Act so that ecological
sustainability take precedence over economic and
cultural sustainability
• equal treatment of farmers and herders in
applies taxes on assets

chap- ter 6:

mil Jo and
Energy
Content:
6.1
6.2
6.3

Nature
Climate
Energy

s. 56
s. 57
s. 58

56

ENVIRONMENT AND ENERGY

6.1 Nature
Norway is fortunate with a varied, lush and pure nature. Norwegians have strong
outdoor traditions based on the public right to free access in outlying areas. Conservatives aim to
entrust nature at least as good a condition to the next generation, including ensuring habitats
for endangered species.
Norwegian nature is formed through use. Local sovereignty and a diverse and private ownership
ensured sustainable management of resources within a national legislation and regulations. This has
still form the basis for the management of natural resources in Norway.

Conservative solutions:
• speed up the revision of the old
hydropower licenses
• ensure protection of a representative sample of
Norwegian nature and marine areas. Areas
that ensured the public, must be managed
so as to facilitate for outdoor activities and
Another sustainable use
• strengthen efforts voluntary protection of forests
• preserve local forests and green spaces in
towns as important recreational areas
population
• ensure local involvement in
protection work. Natural resources should be more
degree managed locally, within the framework
of national goals and international
Obligations
• allow commercial activities in protected
areas as long as this does not go beyond
conservation values
• liquidate "encroachments natural areas"
(Inon) as a tool in land policy,
reorganize the state environmental bureaucracy
and especially consider the role of the Directorate
for Nature
• managing lakes and waterways so
freshwater reservoirs and fishing
recreational areas protected for future
generations

• intensify efforts to clean up toxic
sediment in fjords, rivers, harbors and
lakes
• soften the ban on the use of lead for hunting
and allow the use on solid ground and across open
water
• ensure viable populations of the large
predator species bears, wolves, lynx, wolverine and
Golden Eagle in cooperation with all our
neighboring countries, within the species' natural
range. Efforts to rescue
the remaining Norwegian arctic fox strain
continue
• implement predator Settlement point that
it should not be predator representing
potential damage to prioritized grazing areas
and calving areas for reindeer
• replace real loss of grazing animals as a result of
predators, and that the arrangements must encourage preventive measures and possibly
operational changes in the most vulnerable areas. Predators administration must greatly
based on local discretion and local exercise of
authority within the national population goals
• increase efforts to prevent the introduction and
proliferation of species that do not belong
Norwegian nature

ENVIRONMENT AND ENERGY

• safeguarding the natural diversity, but
evaluate the scope and extent of
Diversity Act

57

• strengthen maritime safety and preparedness for
large discharges

• work to reduce waste
and that more of the waste material or
energy recovery

6.2 Climate
The climate is changing as a result of anthropogenic emissions, and climate change is likely
the world community's greatest challenge in the coming decades. There is some uncertainty about the extent
and what the consequences of this will be, but Right applies the precautionary principle as a basis.
Right wants Norway to take responsibility for future generations livelihoods by helping
internationally binding emission agreements and by investing in research and development of new
technology that can help realize a low carbon society.

Conservative solutions:
• make Norway a driving force for a new
international climate agreement
• participate in the further development of EU
emissions trading system and work
an ambitious goal for European
emission reductions. The essential part
Norway's climate obligations must be fulfilled
through its own measures in Norway or within
EU emissions trading scheme
• strengthen research on environment and climate,
particularly in renewable energy sources,
energy efficiency, carbon capture and
storage. Norway should take a particular responsibility
development of climate-friendly technology
• step up appropriations for
environmental technology fund and assume
the same return as the Government
Pension Fund
• include forests and forest earth role
as important carbon sinks in climate policy

• support the transition to zero and
low emission cars through
tax system, efficiency requirements for
vehicles, charging infrastructure and
hydrogen, as well as requirements on the phasing of
zero-emission vehicles in public
• increasingly adding up the tax system so that it costs to pollute and
is profitable to act environmentally friendly. Current
tax advantages of purchasing and use of zero-emission vehicles will be continued, and tax system
For vehicles must increasingly encourage
low emissions
• facilitate more people to travel by public transport
or use the bike, including through
development of bus lanes, cycle paths and
commuter parking, giving greater state
contribution to major public projects in and
around the major cities. It shall be
environmental and climate requirements for the procurement of
collective facilities and public vehicles

58

• strengthen incentives to improve
public transport and ensure that
documented results are only
criterion for allocation of funds
• ensure rapid progress of development of
InterCity compounds in the central
Oslo area
• increase funding for research centers
environmentally friendly energy (FME) and create a
new research center for geothermal energy

ENVIRONMENT AND ENERGY

• ensure the phasing out of oil heating from all
public buildings by 2018 and bans
against firing with fossil oil from the 2020 increase
this tax and give households
support arrangements for transition to more
environmentally friendly heating
• develop a separate strategy for biofuels
and bioenergy
• support action against global deforestation, also
beyond the commitments in climate compromise

6.3 Energy
Norway has rich energy resources and has in several areas developed a leading expertise in
exploiting these resources. Norway has great potential in renewable energy, such as hydropower,
wind energy, wave energy, tidal energy and bioenergy.
The challenge is to exploit Norway's energy resources so as to ensure power supply and contributes
to realize a low carbon society.

Conservative solutions:
• contribute to Norway's potential for renewable
energy can be exploited, both through increased
research and good grant
for the development and construction
• facilitate increased power generation
hydropower by modernizing older
power plants and open to gentle
developments in new waterways where none
damage important conservation interests. Development
small power plants to ensure a simple and quick
licensing procedures
• work to ensure that small hydro plants that are not
came with the transitional arrangement for
green certificates, get a second chance to become
the scheme

• strengthen the transmission capacity of electric
power between Norway and the rest
Europe to improve resource utilization,
increase value creation and reduce
greenhouse gas emissions
• ensure public control over
hydropower resources through
licensing provisions and tax rules
ensuring common interests. Current
consolidation model, which means that
new licenses will only be granted to companies
where public ownership is at least
two-thirds, shall be implemented for
ownership of hydropower plants. Within this
model must be developed schemes
ensures industries remain strong possibilities
for predictable access to electricity

ENVIRONMENT AND ENERGY

59

• strengthen research on thorium and in the long term
facilitating international application
of Norwegian thorium deposits

• facilitate the introduction of smart
electricity meters and development of
flexible energy systems ("smart grids")

• introduce stricter energy efficiency.
All new public buildings should be
so-called low-energy, and the Housing Bank and
Enova shall excellent aid for
energy conservation measures in enterprises and
Households

• ensure that regional and local grids
being upgraded and adapted to the central
supply network so that resources
sector is being utilized optimally

• ensure that national grid ensures a
functioning energy market and provides stable
power supply across the country

chap- ter 7:

LOCAL SELF-GOVERNMENT
AND PUBLIC
SERVICES
Content:
7.1
7.2
7.3
7.4
7.5
7.6

Public services
Strengthening local democracy
Government bodies, supervision and legislation
Housing
Government employees
Options

s. 62
s. 63
s. 65
s. 66
s. 67
s. 67

62

? Local autonomy and PUBLIC SERVICES

7.1 Public Services
Right will have an effective, transparent and user-friendly public sector that puts the individual
man in the center and that adapts to individual needs. Right will modernize
public administration to ensure effective use of resources, innovation, restructuring and
implementation capacity.
Public services have largely originated in the statutory rights and is subject to
strict rules with regard to management and implementation. Responsibility for delivering services
is divided between municipal, county and various government institutions. By streamlining
of public procurement arrangements can save considerable amounts, and thus used to better
welfare services.
Norway has a well-developed welfare system, but residents are experiencing in many cases that
it may be difficult to orient themselves in the face of the various public organizations and that
they lack overview of deals. Public services are in many cases for
system-oriented and too little user-oriented.
Right want as many possible tasks to be solved in an interaction with citizens, adapted to the
individual needs. Custom information about the quality and availability is crucial for
that the individual should be able to make the right choices based on their needs and their desires.

Conservative solutions:
• strengthen the freedom of choice in public
Welfare services
• initiate new restructuring and
efficiency projects to improve
the quality and ensure the best possible
resources, including the use of
public-private partnerships
• increasingly adopt user surveys
and quality measurements to give residents
and elected officials better insight into the public
services
• introduce response time guarantees

same information once to the
public
• ensure that more public
public offices has operating hours
is better adapted to people's everyday lives
• make more public services available
online, so they can be used independently
opening hours
• spend more competition where there is
appropriate, to increase the quality and
ensure the best possible use of resources

• be positive to the private and voluntary work, and
necessary framework conditions for private
and NGOs

• ensure that private providers can
compete to supply public
services on the same terms as public
businesses

• develop Altinn and be aimed at
business and industry will only have to report

• simplifying the rules for public
procurement

? Local autonomy and PUBLIC SERVICES

63

7.2 Strengthening local democracy
The tasks can be best resolved in which citizens reside. For Conservatives are the basic building
society from the bottom up. Right will therefore strengthen municipalities and local self-government.
The municipalities vary considerably in size, both in terms of area and number of inhabitants.
There is established a large number of inter-municipal companies and collaboration solutions that solve
important social issues, but which are not subject to direct elected governance. Many
smaller municipalities are struggling to get good enough environments within the services they are responsible
to offer citizens.
Conservatives want to strengthen the community's power at the expense of state power, but not
at the expense of the individual. Legislation and control of the municipality's activities are
necessary to ensure the individual's legal rights. Individual legal rights
the municipality's responsibilities must be used when it is important to ensure equal rights for
the citizens of the country and to protect vulnerable groups.
Right will conduct a reform that strengthens municipalities, increase local self-government and
lays the foundation for that most tasks can be solved close to citizens and adapted to their
needs. Right believes the county authority tasks mainly can be taken over by municipalities,
and that municipalities form will improve the opportunities for a diversity of communities with more
opportunities, greater responsibilities and new tasks.
Right wants a revenue model where municipalities can retain a larger part of the local
value creation and a larger share of the tax from their own citizens.

Conservative solutions:
• Due to legislate local democracy
• start the execution of a
municipalities form that provides larger and more
robust municipalities with strong academic environments
• embed county and
let municipalities that have a robust
size, take over the bulk of
county council tasks within
education, health, culture, transport,
industry and regional development
• give municipalities greater authority and opportunity for local adaptation in land policy, for
such as through a differentiated practice
littoral and Oslomarka

• remove county governor opportunity to
overrule municipalities based on discretion
• coordinating and reducing state input and
objections in land issues
• establish a dispute settlement authority between
State and municipal
• transfer secondary education
to municipalities and allow for the more
municipalities to engage in secondary
Schools also before county gets
closed
• reverse the administrative reform and
repatriate the former remaining
interstates, including ferry services to the state

64

• open that municipalities can take over
county roads, and transfer responsibility for
public transport to the municipalities.
• transfer tasks in environmental, agricultural
and nature from the County to municipalities
• give municipalities the opportunity to treat
and decide on license applications
micro power plants
• expand the responsibilities of the municipalities within
NAV, especially in
the user-oriented schemes
• give municipalities the responsibility for administrating
local conservation areas
• try out a model with landowner controlled
management of protected areas and areas
being considered protected
• give municipalities more freedom to regulate
jet ski and snowmobiling
revise the law on motor traffic in uncultivated
• provide municipalities complete responsibility for
child welfare services, lay down today
BUF-etat and distinguish fagdirektoratsoppgavene
and state responsibility
institution CPS

? Local autonomy and PUBLIC SERVICES

• give municipalities the right to decide
bestow times
• undertake a comprehensive review of
income system for the municipal sector.
Changes will ensure and encourage a
positive developments in local government revenues.
The aim is to build up under the local
Authority by municipalities get to keep
a share of corporate tax and a larger
Part of own tax revenues. All changes
the revenue system should be introduced gradually
• maintain growth municipalities challenges
in a better way and keep
income guarantee, so there
becomes abrupt changes from one year to another
• ensure that municipalities that do not require the
property tax, not penalized financially by
State for this

? Local autonomy and PUBLIC SERVICES

65

7.3 Government bodies, supervision and legislation
Supervision The task facing municipalities is important and will become more extensive when municipalities receive
multiple tasks. Supervision should be undertaken to reveal areas of improvement and promote learning
in municipalities. There is a need for a review of the state organization of important tilsynsog control functions, including the coordination of government objections against municipalities.

Conservative solutions:
• remove the provisions of planog building law on state
planning guidelines and state
plan provisions. Affected government
organ may make objections to proposals
the municipal development plan and
zoning if the proposed plan is
in contravention of provisions of law, regulations,
overall plan or national targets adopted
by Parliament
• restrict County Department of chance
to overrule municipal decisions to
legality and complaints, so
the county governor's ability to overrule
municipalities based on discretion removed
• transfer responsibility for planning part of the Planning and
Building Act from the Ministry of Environment
Local Government and Regional Development
• add administrative authority over
areas which are protected under
Diversity Act, the affected municipalities
• making demands on government regulatory agencies and
directorates to coordinate their statements
the municipalities in local affairs

• reduce the number of government opposition proceedings,
which today is 22, significantly
• conduct a critical review of
scope, mandate and practice
the state directorates and
supervisory authorities aimed at efficient
organization and fewer players
• identify areas that are particularly rich in
cultural, and adapt them better
the public. For cultural heritage it is very
many, such as pits and
coal pits, shall upon such mapping
facilitated the requirement for protection, and more responsibility should
transferred to local management
• prepare a model for prioritizing and
financing of archaeological digs
that provides better balance between
decision excavation and costs
and funding of this

66

? Local autonomy and PUBLIC SERVICES

7.4 Housing
Norway has a strong tradition of owning their own home. This is after the Conservative opinion positively,
and contributes both to spread private ownership and to savings in private hands. It is nevertheless an
challenge that house prices have risen sharply over the long haul, and that the way into the housing market
thus has been difficult for many.
Around the big cities caused a great deal of inflation in a strong growth in population. The
important political measure to ensure that the majority can become homeowners, is to make increased
housing construction. Right will cause housing policies that simplify planning processes, strengthens
municipal freedom in planning and building matters and restricts unnecessarily lengthy objection rounds.
The State must contribute to quicker realization of development projects in densely populated areas by contributing in
development of new, modern and comprehensive collective solutions.

Conservative solutions:
• restrict access for opposition
state government and strengthen it
Municipal Authority also questions about
housing construction
• limit the ability of objections there
plan proposal is consistent with the overall
plans
• establish clear criteria for what
represents national interests in planning and
zoning matters

• in collaboration with the building industry simplify
TEK 10 to reduce construction costs
• collecting housing policy issues in one
ministry to ensure a more holistic
strategy and a clear responsibility as a driving force
to ensure adequate housing
• strengthen the system of Housing Savings for
youth (BSU)
• ensure a good and flexible mechanism
housing allowance

• set a deadline for objections, so
commencement date projects
predictable for developer

• consider the possibility of lowering the threshold
for home loans, so more people can have the opportunity to
own their own home

• establish a system of agreements between
municipalities and state for cooperation
infrastructure construction

• develop models for shared ownership
between the borrower and the public, where
although ownership is the goal

• reverse the tightening that has been made in
soil conservation in recent years
• establish a permanent building cost program
in cooperation between the state and
construction industry to reduce
construction costs and increase efficiency
industry

? Local autonomy and PUBLIC SERVICES

67

7.5 Public employees
Skilled and committed employees are the key to ensuring a safe and secure welfare services.
It must therefore be made to make the public sector to become an even better place to work than today.

Conservative solutions:
• take action to get more good managers,
including through binding
manage appointments, more continuing education
and increased decentralization of authority

• have an increased focus on education and
postgraduate and post particularly large
emphasis on this by teachers and staff
care sector

• facilitating a greater proportion of
wage determination in the public sector can happen
through local negotiations

• prevent bureaucratization that steal time from
the work the employee will do directly
out against citizens

• give employees greater freedom and opportunity to
execute the job based on its own assessments

7.6 Options
Norway has one of the world's most mature democracies. Conservatives want the most
democratic electoral system. A prerequisite for a functioning democracy is an electoral system
ensuring that voters get approval for their preferences as regards both policy and
people.

Conservative solutions:
• give voters greater influence by introducing
a personalities well in parliamentary elections and
increase personalities supplement for county
• reintroduce the opportunity to stroke
candidates at municipal and
county

• retain the system of parliamentary elections and
local elections in odd years
• continue experiments with electronic
voting at the polling station
• keep 18 as the voting age at
election

chap- ter 8:

Justice and
preparedness

Content:
8.1
8.2
8.3
8.4
8.5
8.6

Prevention
Preparedness and Civil
Police
The courts
Correctional Services
Asylum seekers and refugees

s. 70
s. 70
s. 71
s. 73
s. 74
s. 75

70

JUSTICE AND EMERGENCY

8.1 Prevention
In the fight against crime is an active preventive work invaluable. This work must
involve local communities, NGOs, sports clubs, schools and the local authority, in addition to
police and correctional services.
A well-functioning and result oriented SLT-workers (Co-ordination of local crime prevention measures) and local politiråd ensures that resources and instruments already
found in the municipality and police, more coordinated. This applies not least prevention
radicalization. Models must be developed that better rewards municipalities that receive a
Such a well functioning prevention.
Preventive work has mainly been directed towards children and adolescents. This is important, but
not sufficient. Prevention is important for all ages and all types of crime.

Conservative solutions:
• develop police advisory councils and SLT to
strengthening local prevention

and establishing systems that allow
healthcare report female genital mutilation to
police and not only to child welfare

• prepare reward schemes for
municipalities and police who succeed
crime prevention

• facilitate more active use of
Mediation Service and follow-up team

• preventing recruitment to criminal groups
and extreme groupings

• have continued ban on the possession and use
of drugs

• strengthen the local police preparedness, also
to provide a protective effect through
increased presence and detection risk

• dismantle taboos around domestic violence
relationships, so that it becomes easier to sever
of conditions where they are exposed to violence and
abuse

• reinforce efforts to combat forced marriages,
female genital mutilation and discrimination,

8.2 Preparedness and Civil
The community is at all times exposed to numerous threats. Terror, serious crime,
natural disasters, extreme weather, and cyber attacks against government agencies, private individuals
or companies, make up some of today's threats.
In the balance between openness and security, we must be conscious of the risks presented by such a
open society. Better coordination, clarification of roles and joint training are required to do
community best prepared for serious incidents.

JUSTICE AND EMERGENCY

71

Conservative solutions:
• undertake more exercises where emergency services
and emergency operators train together
• prepare a police study - to
dimensioning of the future police, we must have
knowledge about the future of crime and
preparedness challenges
• establish a national contingency and
safety element of the Prime Minister
office
• pinpoint, finance and clarify the agencies'
preparedness responsibilities, while we put
agencies better able to solve their
ordinary tasks
• ensure that the police emergency response center
established and put into operation as quickly as
possible
• strengthen NCIS in the fight against organized
Crime
• strengthen PST in fight against terror
• ensure that the Armed Forces capabilities are
available for national crisis management,
and that cooperation between the Armed Forces,
police and civil emergency authorities
is the most streamlined and with a
defined task

• establish an information database over
available equipment and manpower that can
used for civil emergencies
• include the private security industry
civil emergency planning
• strengthen the revenue base for humanitarian
and philanthropic organizations
safeguards preparedness and rescue functions
in society
• ensure that the police have a strategy for the use of
ICT that ensures the best possible use of modern
technology
• ensure that education at
Police Academy continuously adapted
society's need for security, and that the
greater attention to operational
service
• strengthen preparedness for cyber crime
and cyber attacks, and to clarify the responsibilities and
distribution of tasks in this field
• increase knowledge on combating
extremism

8.3 Police
For the safety of citizens and sense of justice, it is important both that we have a visible police presence and that
reported cases are investigated and prosecuted.
July 22 Commission report highlighted the weaknesses in the police and the other emergency services
ability to take the emergency responsibilities they have. Follow-up of the critical points must be a
The main task in the coming years. Recruitment and remuneration of skilled managers who are able to
lead the individual police effectively, must be emphasized more. Operational experience should count more

72

JUSTICE AND EMERGENCY

than today. Society's total resources must be used more effectively by the police faster searches
assistance from the armed forces of major events.
At the same time, ensure that the safety of citizens and the right feeling to be taken seriously in that we
retains a visible and accessible neighborhood police that both abilities to investigate and to prosecute
reported cases. Police task total portfolio should be critically considered with a view to
concentrate efforts towards community needs. The police must be available to the times of
day when the need is greatest. Police backlog must receive a clear mandate and used when needed.
In several areas, conflicts may arise between the need for new law enforcement methods and
consideration of privacy and legal issues. Right believes that the fight against crime must be done
within the framework of basic rule of law.

Conservative solutions:
• strengthen the staffing of the police and get a more
visible policing and ensure audiences around
country a good and effective police emergency
• prepare a police study where the relationship
between tasks and resource availability seen in
context
• undergo police organization and
structure for the organization best
adapted to today's needs for security
• reduce the total number of goals and
duties police, to ensure
satisfying assignments
• develop a national strategy for increased use
Civil competence of the police
• assess the need for continuing and
postgraduate studies in the police. It must be practiced
sufficiently so that the police operative
capacity strengthened
• consider opening for general arming of
Norwegian police
• ensure that the police have access to
necessary technology and ICT systems
conducive to effective combating of
crime and enhanced responsiveness. Ensure
that the financing of the purchase program
not at the expense of the police capability
to perform its tasks

• increase the competence of the police and judiciary
about domestic violence and random
violence against people from vulnerable groups in
society, so these issues to a greater extent
are investigated and brought to trial
• strengthen shelters and other
competence efforts against domestic violence
close relations
• review the organization of the police,
prosecutors and the judiciary to ensure
the most efficient implementation of
criminal cases

• ensure that the Oslo Police cover their
costs related to the capital functions
protection of key institutions
and embassies, as well as the security around
international guests in Norway
• seek a closer association with the EU
justice policy cooperation and actively participate
in other international police cooperation
to combat organized crime,
trafficking and terrorism
• reintroduce ban on begging to
fight against trafficking and organized
Crime

JUSTICE AND EMERGENCY

• ensure that more people who commit
crime while they temporarily or
illegally staying in Norway, must serve their time
punishment in the home country
• ensure that the police, by reasoned
suspicion, access to the necessary
public records to provide a better opportunity
to investigate crime and apprehend
missing persons
• require that personal information collected
and treated within stringent
privacy and information security
• practicing Schengen acquis
stricter when it comes to exhibit
recurring criminals
• open for the use of more qualified
suppliers of DNA analysis to ensure
faster clarification and better legal protection

73

• repeal the ban on buying sex
of people over 18 years and strength
assistance services for prostitute
• strengthen efforts to combat
trafficking and abuse of children,
including dissemination of indecent images of
children
• establish a national victim care
To ensure better monitoring of victims of
Crime
• intensify efforts against forced marriages
and against hatmotivert violence. Violation of
fundamental human rights can
inadmissible even if they are justified
cultural or religious beliefs
• remove the Penal Code § 135 A to set forth
discriminatory or hateful expressions

8.4 The courts
It is an important constitutional principle that criminal cases be tested thoroughly before a court. Meanwhile
it is important both for the victim and the defendant that the process is effective, so that the cases can be quickly
up to judgment.
The judiciary handles a growing body of criminal and civil cases. combined with
an increasing proportion of complex cases this often takes a long time before a case comes
Court. Retts¬vesenet must be strengthened in order to take away the growing caseload.
It must also put more emphasis on alternative dispute resolution. For Right, it is crucial that it is
balance in the criminal justice chain.

Conservative solutions:
• increase the capacity of the courts and
strengthen the effectiveness of criminal proceedings
to shorten the time between offenses,
conviction and atonement
• facilitate greater use of electronic
communication in courts
casework

• evaluate several criminal cases to ensure better
use of available resources
• discontinue the jury system and replace it
with a large meddomsrett composed of
professional judges and lay judges, and a requirement to
qualified majority in order to find the defendant guilty

74

JUSTICE AND EMERGENCY

• strengthen legal security through a better
public legal aid service

• ensure prompt notice of atonement by
confession judge

• increase the use of victim and
monitoring team for young offenders in
less serious cases

• strengthen the provision of witness support and improve
monitoring of kin
• strengthen legal protection for whistleblowers

8.5 Correctional Services
It is still a relatively high percentage of convicts who commit new crimes after their release.
Return to society presupposes a good and close cooperation between several players.
Nav must be represented in all Norwegian prisons and NGOs engaged
rollback work with proven results, must be given increased support. Physician coverage in Norwegian
jails are unacceptably low and must be improved. Correctional Services must be better to retain skilled
labor than today.

Conservative solutions:
• secure a criminal level as increasingly
reflect the urgency related to the individual
criminal action. Serious crimes
murder, violence, rape, abuse,
trafficking and terrorism will be punished
strictly, and penalties for such
Crimes should be exploited to a greater extent.
Conservatives want an assessment of raised
maximum penalty for crimes against
humanity, serious terrorist attacks and
expeditiously
• consider statutory limitation in serious
moral issues and murders of respect
the victim and the relatives
• increase atonement capacity, including open
for the use of PPP for the development of prisons.
Concern for community safety imply a
better balance between open and closed
Places. Number custody seats must be increased
• increase the number of incarcerated transfers
foreign convicts, and establish their own

prisons with reduced requirements for facilities
for foreign prisoners who should not
attributed to Norwegian society
• review the conditions for release from
Custody
• Sharpen the conditions of parole,
particularly at serious crimes
• ensure that escapes, no show after leave and no-shows by Sentences involving extended punishment
• maintain the age of criminal liability
15 years old and generally use
alternative atonement forms
community service for young convicts
• improve the contents of the community sentence and
sharpen reaction by violating the terms
for community service
• support the use of alternative punishment forms
drug program under court supervision in
Instead of ordinary imprisonment

JUSTICE AND EMERGENCY

• critically through today
region model for correctional
and ensure more knowledge about the effects of
correctional work
• ensure that convicts before their release has a
Individual Plan for personalized monitoring
after completing the sentence. Freed
should receive follow-up in terms of housing and
activities, and any continuation
of drug rehabilitation or education. Volunteers

75

organizations should increasingly be used to
Such monitoring
• strengthen its mental health services
and substance abuse treatment for inmates.
Drugs should not be accepted in Norwegian
prisons. The authority for the security check and
body searches should therefore be extended
• implement approved project on the use of
conversely security alarm

8.6 Asylum seekers and refugees
Norway has an obligation to help people in need and to provide protection from persecution. Respect
for asylum can only be achieved through a rigorous, but fair practices. This implies
a consistent line that makes fewer unfounded asylum seekers, and that those who
asylum seekers have their applications processed quickly.
Many asylum seekers residing illegally in the country after they have been finally rejected its
asylum applications. This goes beyond those who have a genuine need for protection.

Conservative solutions:
• reduce processing and putting
deadlines for processing asylum applications,
both for the individual applicant,
his family and integration in the
Norwegian society. Opportunity to
Trainers repatriation after rejection must
restricted

• introduce a notification system for asylum seekers
who do not live in a reception center and for people
which has been rejected. Repeated violations of
notification requirement must lead to detention

• Faster return unfounded asylum seekers
and persons residing illegally in
Norway, to their countries of origin

• establish expertise receipt of all
regions

• increase the use of age examination and
DNA testing and tighten up the requirement in
Immigration Act that asylum seekers should
help clarify their own identity
• open to increase the number of quota refugees
if the situation warrants it

• establish custody arrangements for asylum seekers
who commit crimes while
the application is processed

• provide better monitoring of mentally ill
asylum seekers, both during the application period and
by settlement

chap- ter 9:

FAMILY, WORK
AND SOCIAL

Content:
9.1
9.2
9.3
9.4
9.5
9.6
9.7

Family
Child welfare
A strengthened arbeidslinje
Second chance
A flexible and safe workplace
Labour
Pension

s. 78
s. 78
s. 79
s. 80
s. 82
s. 83
s. 84

78

FAMILY, WORK AND SOCIAL

9.1 Family
Right believe that family is the most important social communities, and that it constitutes a foundation in
the individual's life that the state can never replace. Family creates and secures a confident frame of
upbringing of children, whatever form the individual's family may have. Man's intrinsic value and
self-respect is central to the Conservatives' family policies.
Families should be respected for their uniqueness. Children are different, and families are different. The view on
upbringing and care varies. Therefore, each secured the freedom to choose the solutions
which suits them best. Everyone must be given the opportunity to take responsibility for themselves and their loved ones. In order to
giving more opportunity to help children who for various reasons do not have parents, to a safe and sound
Adolescence want the Conservatives to increase adoption support.

Conservative solutions:

• strengthen families' freedom of choice

• facilitate parental leave legislation and
introduce a self-service network solutions for withdrawals
parental leave

• equate parental rights
Caregivers

• make it obligatory to attend the
four-year control

• let parents freely share parental leave
among themselves

• redo the cash benefit to a statutory
municipal performance

• support the family's important role in our
society

9.2 Barnevern
All children are entitled to safety and good care. Right will highlight the personal responsibility
each of us has to notify about children in different ways suffer. Right believes that children's right
a safe upbringing must be decisive.
Every child must be taken seriously, and child welfare must involve your child in important decisions
its life. Legal protection for vulnerable children and young people are too weak. We need a child characterized by high quality, variety and customization tailored to the individual child.

Conservative solutions:
• prevent children from being throw balls between
government agencies, and establish closer cooperation between child welfare, kindergartens, schools,
police and Labour and Welfare Organisation (NAV)

• ensure that all municipalities associated with a
child protection guard
• give municipalities a comprehensive academic and
financial responsibility for the child welfare service.

FAMILY, WORK AND SOCIAL

Municipalities must ensure that they have the necessary
competence to fulfill this important
responsibility
• lay down today Bufetat to separate
fagdirektoratsoppgavene and state
responsibility for child welfare institution
• introduce authorization schemes for
institutions with quality criteria, and
ensure full transparency about barneverntilbudets
content, quality and price
• establish an independent, low-threshold
complaints procedure for children and their families to
safeguard their legal protection
• have a trial for collocation
the police and children's houses, so that children who
have been subjected to violence and / or abuse,
secured assistance without undue delay
• open that several child actors
can recruit foster and strengthen
support network around foster families
• ensure sound supervisory
• strengthen legal rights of children through the
CPS given greater opportunity to acquaint
measures even when the child's parents or

79

Caregivers do not agree to this.
Barns best should weigh heavier than their parents' wishes by questions about visitation, lasting
a care and adoption
• change the rules governing the right to aftercare for
to ensure that more children in care get good
monitoring in line with their own wishes and
needs after age 18 and until the age of 23 years.
Aftercare must start before their 18th birthday
• facilitate a multitude of
child welfare program using stable
and good conditions also for private
offers, as well as strengthen quality control by
child welfare institutions
• Changing Welfare Act so that it can
implemented sanctions against children
CPS custody when special reasons
warrant
• establish a better and more binding cooperation between the child welfare and child and
adolescent psychiatry. A public institution
may be one of several important measures
• ensure that the county boards have sufficient
resources to avoid unnecessary long
processing time

9.3 A strengthened arbeidslinje
Conservatives aim is a society with opportunities for all. The welfare state should be strong for the
who need help. The overall goal of the Conservative Party of Labour and Social Policy is to contribute
why many people as possible can experience the peace of mind it is to be self-reliant and to
Having a gainful employment to go to. Meanwhile, those who need help, ensured decent
arrangements and have the opportunity to activity and participation. Number of people with impaired
disabilities who would like to work is increasing. Right want a society that increasingly
facilitates that all people can use it for work they have.
The welfare society rests on our common effort. It gives the economy needed
welfare state. But the welfare state also relies on a sense of mutual obligations

80

FAMILY, WORK AND SOCIAL

that balances the interests of rights and obligations. There are several negative that fall completely or partially
out of - or never come into - the workplace. Those who are too ill to work, may not be pressed
into labor. But we need to break the vicious circle that allows exclusion are inherited, and we must
ensuring that those who can work, actually work. A strengthened arbeidslinje is a prerequisite to ensure
welfare society's future.

Conservative solutions:
• go through the current fiscal and
welfare schemes to ensure that they
encourages activity and work - it must
pay to work
• increase efforts to gain more
Disabled entering the workplace,
including through arrangements with
support worker and business travel. Efforts
universal design should continue
• introduce a right and duty activity
recipients of social assistance. Young should
prioritized initially. Social assistance should
not be a passive performance

• facilitate that seniors can be extended
in the workplace
• ensure that more people can come back faster
to work through an improved "Faster
back »-arrangement
• introduce a system of standardized
sick leave. The standards shall be prepared
on a scientific basis and could be deviated by
needs
• introduce as a general rule that no one should
could sick leave for more than six months
by their regular GP

9.4 New Chance
There are many reasons why people are outside or never enters the workplace. It may
due to physical or mental illness, lack of skills, reading and writing problems,
poor knowledge of Norwegian or feature of the labor market.
A strengthened arbeidslinje is the most important contribution to combating social exclusion. While recognizing
Right that efforts to give all people a second chance must proceed along a broad front. It revolves
both about changing the systems and the retrofitting of the individual's ability to stand on its own.
Right To combat the so-called new-poverty. A significant proportion of this
poverty is linked to newcomers or relatively newly arrived immigrant families with small
labor market attachment. Right believes new-poverty can best be combated by addressing
causes of poverty, and do not think increased payments alone will solve the problems in the long term. Right
will strengthen the policy tools that are especially aimed at children who grow up in poor
families.

FAMILY, WORK AND SOCIAL

81

Social entrepreneurship is an alternative way to solve social challenges in society.
It can for example be to create business solutions to social problems,
where the gain is measured in the improvement of social conditions - not in economic profit. Socially
Entrepreneurship is an important supplement to the public, commercial and ideal solutions.
New migration patterns put welfare systems, as currently designed, under pressure.
Conservatives want a decent and sustainable welfare society in the future and will ensure the
through an adaptation of the welfare schemes to the new global reality.

Conservative solutions:
• ensure the individual the opportunity to the greatest
possible to stand on its own. Efforts
the dropout rate in high school must
strengthened, and if necessary additional offers
alternative educations

• pursue adapted Norwegian tuition
facilitated in business or in combination
with specialized course Introduction program must
strengthened, and it must set clearer requirements
participation

• have a strong commitment to literacy
writing for adults

• strengthening the link between
qualification program and working life

• ensure that measures vendors to deliver Nav
outperforms today. More must go from
benefits and into employment. The requirements for
sector must become clearer, great results
must be rewarded and contact with the private sector strengthened. Right want more than today will
get help to get people from benefits to work

• strengthen local poverty measures directed
against children. All children should have the opportunity to
to borrow sports equipment and take part in leisure and
cultural activities

• prioritize up measures for those who are
furthest away from the labor market, and create a
clearer distinction between those in need
placement and coaching, and them
requiring measures

• consider how welfare schemes
can be adapted to new European and global
migration patterns

• stimulate social entrepreneurship to
solving social challenges
• ensure that Nav with matters faster than in
day. Nav will provide individualized treatment to
those who need assistance

• consider whether part of the welfare system
which today comes as cash benefits, in
instead should be replaced by services and measures

• consider measures that could limit insurance export, but within the international
agreements Norway is bound

82

FAMILY, WORK AND SOCIAL

9.5 A flexible and safe workplace
Norwegian working life is characterized by orderliness and good cooperation between the parties. This is a
of the reasons why Norway has a more flexible and adaptable working and business than
many other countries. Right believes that there is an advantage in an organized and egalitarian workplace
and a high degree of organization, and will cooperate constructively with all organizations, both
on employees and employers. Right will develop and modernize the Norwegian
model.
Although Norwegian working mainly works well, is the current legislation in some areas not
adapted to the challenges of today and tomorrow working face. For example, it
be a great demand for labor in the Norwegian work ahead, and we must make use of available
labor possible. Flexibility is a benefit for many workers because it provides greater
opportunity to combine work, family and leisure.

Conservative solutions:
• make it easier to establish locally agreed
internship schemes and other flexible working arrangements based on local needs

• soften the rules for Sunday,
public holiday and night work

• soften the rules for working hours, but secure
clear boundaries. The rules for average
calculation of working hours should be made more
flexible

• retain union deduction on today
level

• reintroduce Labour Inspection permitted to
provide general exemptions from the Working Environment Act
working hours when the parties
agreed locally
• retain permanent employment as a general rule in
workplace
• work to reduce the scope of
involuntary part
• soften the rules for temporary
hiring by temporary needs

• expand the use of fixed-term contracts in leading positions

• strengthen the Labour Inspectorate and
PSA capacity and strengthen
work against unacceptable working conditions,
in cooperation with employers and
workers
• encourage non-traditional career choices for
reduce the sexes in the workplace

FAMILY, WORK AND SOCIAL

83

9.6 Labour
An increasing number of people moving across borders due to increased
world trade, reduced transport costs, freedom of movement and closer
interaction between countries. Different cultures come in contact with each other, and ideas
knowledge and experiences exchanged faster than ever before. More finds love across
borders, and the labor market becomes more international.
Immigration to Norway motivated by work and family reunion is today many times
greater than immigration due to movement. It is a good that workers want to
create a future in Norway, and we rely on immigration to ensure economic
growth. Knowledge, expertise and diversity contributes to increased innovation and economic development. The
must therefore be easier for businesses to attract highly skilled labor from other
countries.

Conservative solutions:
• go through the rules and organization of
application processes for labor
to ensure faster access to highly qualified
labor, also from countries outside the EEA
• introducing a model with
prior approval of enterprises, such
that experts can come to Norway, start
work and arrange the paperwork afterwards
• facilitate labor migration by establishing
several shared service centers for police, UDI, Nav
and the tax administration

• establish a system of fast track
processing of applications for residence and
work permit for foreign researchers
and other specialists
• introduce mobile tax office
Foreign Workers
• provide migrant workers the opportunity to
strengthen their expertise through duty
tuition when they are unemployed

84

FAMILY, WORK AND SOCIAL

9.7 Retirement
Right believes it is important to ensure financial security in old age, also for future
generations. Therefore Right helped to prepare a broad agreement on a new
pension system. Right believes the pension reform was a step in the right direction, but that it
in the future will be a need for further adaptations to ensure a balance between current and
future generations.
With pension reform, we have no longer any fixed retirement age, and we can draw a pension from
national insurance scheme we have 62 years. Although the new system encourages that those who want it,
can work longer, hanging much of the legislation after. Among other things there are in many professions
special age limits that prevent older people from staying in work. In addition, many businesses called
intracompany age limits, while civil servants must retire at the age of 70 unless otherwise
not explicitly agreed.

Conservative solutions:
• pursue an economic policy that secures
financing of pensions

• consider to abolish the right to have
intracompany age limits

• prepare a system for fund base ring of
Additionally pensions

• undergo special retirement age with a view
in that most of them are redundant
and may be replaced by an individual assessment of
Suitability

• go through all age limits in legislation
to adapt them to pension reform
and ensure that we do not encounter employable and
hard working seniors out of the workplace.
Right will respect agreements
between the social partners, but search
to bring the pension benefits in the public and
private sector closer together
• in cooperation with the social partners
raise 70-year rule in the Working Environment Act and
civil service to 75 years, so that laws
are in accordance with the rules for vesting
pension

• raise the deductible amount saved
in the individual pension saving schemes
(IPS) and reduce the tax rate by
outlet to 28 percent
• work for a more unified pension system in
private and public sectors

chap- ter 10:

DIVERSITY AND
INCLUSION

Content:
10.1
10.2
10.3
10.4

Migration and Inclusion
A universally designed society
Indigenous peoples and national minorities
Faith and Spirituality

s. 88
s. 89
s. 89
s. 90

88

DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION

10.1 Migration and Inclusion
Immigration is a source of diversity, new ideas and cultural exchange. Variety helps
innovation, innovation and creativity. While immigration has contributed to economic
growth in Norway and made us a more diverse nation, we see challenges related to
immigration and integration.
Participation in the labor market and good knowledge of Norwegian is the keys to inclusion in the Norwegian
community. Work gives a sense of belonging, community, networking and opportunity to self-reliance.
Earned income also allows to get into the mainstream housing market. A
prerequisite for getting a job will in most cases be good Norwegian language skills. Right To
therefore build their integration policies on knowledge and qualification, opportunity for employment and
access to the housing market. People who have been lawfully resident in the country, will meet with
expectations to contribute and participate in the Norwegian society.

Conservative solutions:
• ensure the fastest possible integration into Norwegian
society by all those seeking to Norwegian
nationality shall conduct a
language and knowledge test
• ensure that children stay away from school without
lawful reason, through imposing school owner
having procedures for monitoring. It should also
are controlled student register in school
against the population register
• identify children's language skills and
provide language training for children with weak
Norwegian skills before starting school. All
shall also include children who do not attend
kindergarten
• strengthen language training for women
minority backgrounds, and provide more opportunity
to participate in working life
• ensure faster approval procedures,
better skills validation and Deals
the upgrading of skills required to ensure
that education immigrants already have,
can be used in Norway

• use homework help and summer school for now
children with special language challenges
• working with immigrant organizations
and cultural and religious communities to
ensure that individual groups do not fall outside
• strengthen local integration efforts
by providing municipalities and volunteers
organizations resources to drive
integration work
• strengthen receipt schools and better control
pupils' knowledge before transferring
from the receiving school to another primary or
High School
• ensure that all students get the fastest possible customized
training after the regular curriculum
in Norwegian

DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION

89

10.2 A universally designed society
Right will be pushing for that universal design basis for
community planning and implemented in practice for buildings, in transport and in the
public rooms. Too many people make the lack of physical arrangements in the community one
important limitation of their freedom of movement and ability to take part in activities.

Conservative solutions:
• promote a universal equality and
antidiscrimination
• strengthen peer education to the
disability organizations

• provide people with comprehensive
assistance needs greater freedom of choice through
right to choose user-controlled personal
assistance (BPA)
• initiate work on universal
adaptation of all school buildings

10.3 Indigenous peoples and national minorities
Norway has through national decisions and ratification of international conventions committed
themselves to cherish a diversity that protects indigenous peoples and national minorities. Norwegians and
Samis have the same right to develop their language, culture and way of life.
Right thinks this linguistic, cultural and social diversity is an enrichment for
country and will work for mutual respect and solidarity among peoples.

Conservative solutions:
• preserve and develop the Sami language,
culture and society as part of
Norway's common cultural heritage
• ensure consultation system between
Parliament, the Sami Parliament and the Government
• establish cooperation across
borders, for example, when it
Concerning teaching the Sami language
• have a commitment to electronic teaching aids
Sami and Sami online training,
often in cooperation with Sweden and Finland

• work to give students the opportunity to choose
a Sami language as an optional secondary language
• prepare a new strategy for Sami
industries in collaboration with the Sami Parliament
• take care of national minority culture and
history

90

DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION

10.4 Faith and Spirituality
Freedom of religion and freedom of belief is a basic human right and a prerequisite for a
free society. A good society has room for the whole person, with the religious identity
and the ethos of each individual. Conservatives want a community where both individuals and
organizations can exercise their faith and beliefs without government interference.
Worship is no longer a big part of the majority population lives. At the same time
increases the number of Norwegians who have an awareness of religious belief. This can be a source of conflict.
Norway has a greater religious diversity than previously, and we must as a nation take a stand on new challenges related to human right to practice their religion and the place of religion in the public sphere.
The ties between church and state has become looser as a result of church settlement. The Norwegian church
will still have a unique position in Norwegian society.

Conservative solutions:
• prepare a comprehensive law on religion and
Life Stance

• allow religious clothing and symbols
used by civilians in public places

• ensuring that the internal self-determination
should be real in all religious and
Life Stance

• ensure the right of parents to safeguard their
child rearing from their own beliefs.
Custody limited by the child's right
respect for their equality and protection against
integrity violations

• continue support for religious education in the
Norwegian Church
• ensure the Norwegian Church full jurisdiction in trosog employment questions
• basing the economic subsidies to
religious and belief in the principle of
equal treatment. The state should not be able to use financial instruments to manage legal
Activity under the auspices of religious and belief
• ensure that freedom of expression applies on
Likewise, for both religious and
religion critical remarks

• maintain the current marriage system and
provision of civil marriage for those who
want a ceremony organized by the state
• maintain a gay marriage
• remove the permanent residence for priests in the Norwegian Church

chap- ter 11:

Foreign and
defense

Content:
11.1
11.2
11.3
11.4
11.5

Norway in World
Development
Freedom, human rights and democracy
Northern Areas
Defense

s. 94
s. 95
s. 97
s. 98
s. 99

94

FOREIGN AND DEFENCE

11.1 Norway in World
Norway is an open society with an open economy. Our development, our security and our prosperity
are strongly influenced and determined by processes and actors outside Norway. We are
interdependent of our neighbors, allies and trading partners. Right will lead a realistic
foreign policy founded on clear priorities. Foreign policy should achieve actual
Results for the Norwegian people.
Right believes that Norway should contribute to maintaining and strengthening the international rule of law through
binding international cooperation in the UN, NATO, EEA, WTO and other international
organizations. We must dare to take side with like-minded countries when the international
rule of law is being challenged. Meanwhile, we shall endeavor to preserve an open and free trade
between countries, particularly strive increased trade between developing and developed countries, and support
Norwegian business role in this.
Norway is an energy superpower as a producer, exporter and investor. Norwegian actors
significant interests and big opportunities in the energy field around the world. Energy must get a
important place in Norwegian foreign policy and diplomatic service.
Norway's efforts as an active, engaged and predictable partner and ally should not
could be called into question. Human rights, democracy, rule of law and freedom of expression are part of
foundations of our society, and will also mark the Norwegian foreign policy. Norway shall put forward
when our efforts are needed and we have the ability to contribute, whether through contributions to
international operations, development aid or environmental and climate work.
Access to EU internal market through the EEA Agreement is an important prerequisite to ensure
welfare in Norwegian society. The Norwegian society is shaped by decisions taken in a
political system in which Norwegian voters are not represented. This is a democratic problem.
Right therefore wishes in length to replace the EEA Agreement with full participation in the EU. Norway
security needs are being addressed largely through NATO, but a Norwegian EU membership
will further strengthen our security in the long term.

Conservative solutions:
• promoting democracy, human rights,
rule of law and freedom of expression through Norwegian
Foreign Policy
• supporting reforms, streamlining and
stricter priorities in the UN to increase
organizational effectiveness and legitimacy
• strengthen Norwegian representation and influence
in multilateral organizations and institutions crucial for Norway

• promote free trade, also between
developing and developed countries
• work to strengthen integration in Europe
and Norwegian membership in the EU. The question
for EU membership will be decided by
referendum. While Norway is not
member, will Right prioritize a more active
European policy

FOREIGN AND DEFENCE

• prioritize presence in EUsammenhenger and strengthen coordination
Government's EU and
EEA matters. Parliament must be involved more
actively in the EU and EEA matters,
and the opportunities to be represented in
committees and working groups must be utilized
as well as possible
• strengthen Nordic cooperation in practical
diplomacy, through closer coordination,
collocated embassies and larger
degree of responsibility sharing where possible
• strengthen foreign service expertise and
involvement in the energy sector
• strive for NATO continues as
an effective and operational alliance of

95

democracies through active and loyal
Norwegian contributions
• contribute to international military operations
through NATO, UN or EU, depending
of our specific strengths and needs,
and what serves the mission best.
Norwegian participation will contribute to the Norwegian and
international peace and security
• work for stronger international
Cooperation against proliferation of nuclear weapons
and other weapons of mass destruction,
and support the development of new
humanitarian legal instruments to
strengthen existing disarmament agreements.
Use of nuclear weapons unacceptable
humanitarian consequences. The aim must
therefore be a world free of nuclear weapons

11.2 Development
Right wants Norway to continue to support poor countries' democratic, economic and social
development. Our support will go to the processes that are most effective, creating lasting
change, and that strengthens the individual's ability to care for themselves, their family and their
society.
Simple Human speech and ability to political and economic participation should be strengthened,
not weakened, as a result of Norwegian involvement. National authorities own efforts and
political ownership of their own development is a prerequisite for Norwegian support. Norwegian assistance shall be
limited where possible, to prevent aid dependency and weakening of national
responsibility. Norwegian development assistance will be evaluated independently, thoroughly and critically, and conclusions
will have implications for future efforts.
Cooperation between Norwegian and national governments, NGOs, the UN and
other actors should be constructive, result-oriented and characterized by clear division of responsibility and
coordination. Development aid should as far as possible coordinated with other major donors,
as the EU and the Nordic countries.
Assistance from rich countries can never replace the cost of a protectionism that denies poor
countries the opportunity to develop their own economies. Right will eliminate barriers to trade and
increasing poor countries' market access to Norway.

96

FOREIGN AND DEFENCE

Conservative solutions:
• continue a high level Norwegian assistance, but
concentrate assistance both thematically and
geographically, so we have ability to manage
the good, consider the effect thorough and
introducing changes if required. All assistance
should wherever possible be limited
• twist development policy away from traditional
assistance, in the direction of a greater degree of
coherence, through use
trade policy, agricultural policy,
competence, help to manage
natural resources and direct investment
that development policy instruments
• require effective economic policy
and political openness in connection with
aid, debt relief and other financial
development
• work to multilateral trade agreements
through WTO for stable conditions and
level playing field globally, while
conclude more limited agreements where it is
necessary. Norway should conclude bilateral
trade agreements until a multilateral
framework exists
• sharpen demands for democratic development
and combating corruption in
beneficiary countries, especially where state-to-state aid applicable
• prioritize education, especially for girls, in
development

• support funding that can help to give individuals opportunities
to develop their own business and work,
and prioritize funding for education, health and
women's and children's rights
• strengthen efforts to combat the use of sexual
violence in war and conflicts, and to follow up
work with Security Council Resolution
1325
• evaluating and reforming the current
funding for
information support to organizations in
Norway, and examine the reintroduction of a
self-financing requirements for Norwegian bistandsog development organizations receiving
public support
• ensure transparency in aid and the possibility of
public to follow aid funds.
There must be full transparency on the effectiveness
and the achievement of objectives in international
partners and in multilateral
organizations where Norway contributes, and Norwegian
Support must be directed towards organizations
that deliver excellent results
• strengthen Norfund and other development based
on private solutions

FOREIGN AND DEFENCE

97

11.3 Freedom, Human Rights and Democracy
Today, over half the world's countries democracies, and history shows that human quest
for increased freedom and co-determination is universal. Right believes that one of the main hurdles
for long-term economic growth, peace and stability in many countries is the suppression of personal
freedom.
Some countries insist that human rights are not universal, and want to promote
specific national standards for democracy and human rights. Right believes this
is a clear misconception, and that the core human rights values ​​enshrined in a large
multilateral agreements where the UN Declaration of Human Rights and the European Charter for
human rights is particularly important.
Right considers freedom of expression, religious freedom and the rule of law as fundamental
human rights for all people, regardless of geography and religion. Right To
support freedom-seeking individuals and organizations in their efforts for freedom of expression, religious freedom and
democracy.

Conservative solutions:
• ensure that human rights,
democracy, rule of law and freedom of expression
receive characterize Norwegian development policy, and
that the recipient country's willingness to govern with
basis of these principles will weigh heavily
in considering efforts and economic
support from Norway
• require progress in
for transparency, the press, freedom of speech and
freedom in all countries receiving
financial support from Norway
• contribute to stepping up the fight against violence against civilians, even when they are committed by private
Governments, including through
make the International Criminal Court
as efficient as possible
• increase investment in developing countries
where there is a positive trend
democratization

• support the EU as the main proponent
for the strengthening of democracy and
human rights in Europe and globally,
and continue to support the Council of Europe
and the OSCE. These venues will be used
discussion on legal and political
solutions to challenges arising from
immigration and migration in Europe
• increasing Norwegian efforts to strengthen
human rights and counter
trends towards increased authoritarianism in Europe
• help to protect and enhance the individual
right to choose one's faith or not having a faith.
Norway shall, in cooperation with like-minded
countries, addressing violations of religious freedom in direct
communication with any country where such
human rights violations occur

98

FOREIGN AND DEFENCE

11.4 Northern Areas
The northern areas are developing rapidly. Over a few decades, the Arctic, the Arctic Ocean and adjacent
coastal areas has gone from being a security policy voltage range to be an energy and
industrial policy powerhouse. North and the Arctic is of great importance to Norway,
both security politically and economically. Environment and climate change are especially visible in the north.
Right will pursue a policy that ensures a stable and positive development in the northern areas, including
Svalbard. Norway will contribute to a comprehensive, long-term and proper management of resources
area.

Conservative solutions:
• ensure a strong Norwegian presence and
sovereignty in the Arctic and
Svalbard

• continue a constructive relationship with
polar nations, especially Russia, in matters
of mutual interest

• facilitate that Northern Norway
residents and local authorities can take
lead in shaping their own future

• continue cooperation between Norwegian and
Russian organizations, institutions and
people-to-people cooperation

• ensure good conditions for developing
industrial clusters on the mainland in the north
connection with the extraction of oil and gas
in new areas north of the Norwegian Sea and in
Barents Sea. This must be done in cooperation
with the existing research centers
region

• put the defense able to be
present with increased operational capability in
North. Defense needs within our
security policy cooperation could make
for control in our part of the Arctic Ocean and the North Atlantic

• create a unified management and
development plan for sustainable exploitation
of natural resources in the Arctic.
Environmental Preparedness in the northern areas should
continuously assessed, and if necessary
strengthened
• contribute to increased national and international
research expertise on climate and the environment in
North

• ensuring Norwegian participation to a
international solution to safeguard environment
and security by increasing shipping over
Arctic Ocean
• maintain a broad Norwegian presence on
Svalbard, including coal extraction until the
may be replaced by other economic activities

FOREIGN AND DEFENCE

99

11.5 Defence
Conservatives want a defense that secures Norwegian interests, sovereignty and freedom, and that
enables us to preserve and strengthen NATO and other security cooperation forums of
significance for Norway. It is a basic and timeless responsibility to ensure the safety of
citizens, society and state. Norway's security interests will be best served by helping
to détente, security and stability, both in the Norwegian neighboring areas and globally.
The Armed Forces must be designed to handle all types of military threats in all parts of
Norway, with special emphasis on northern regions. Most threats will be handled within a
alliance framework, but still have important tasks solved by Norwegian forces. Right believes that
this requires a strengthening of defense beyond current levels. Norwegian safety is critically dependent
by contributions from our allies. For the alliance to be sustainable over time, there must be balance
between what we expect from our allies, and we contribute to the alliance.
Right will ensure that we have a real threshold defense with robust and flexible operational units
that can handle changing challenges in light of the current threat level, in
addition to unforeseen events both at home and abroad. For that departments should have real operational
capacity and could handle the entire width of the Armed Forces missions, personnel must framework
adapted operational needs with the right skills, high level of training and adequate and
timely material.
Armed Forces play a crucial role for society's overall preparedness. This applies to both
for sharp situations like terrorist attacks and in connection with accidents and natural disasters.
Armed capacities must be available for national crisis management, and it must be ensured a
the best possible cooperation between the armed forces, police and civil emergency authorities.

Conservative solutions:
• increase funding to make the Armed Forces
able to solve imposed mission, and create
real balance between allocations, structure
and tasks. It must be sustainable
balance between operations and investments
• ensure that all operational departments
keeping a necessary level of training
• ensuring implementation of the Parliamentary
decisions related to the acquisition of new
fighter
• strengthen the Home Guard task forces
and ability to deal with military threats,
while local recruitment, affiliation
and preparedness in the country is maintained

• further develop the Armed Forces ability defensively
and offensive cyber operations as a
part of society's overall defense against
cyber threats
• provide clear defense preparedness requirements
also nationally. Preparedness requirements shall
be reviewed and followed up
• reviewing aid instruction with
aimed at increasing flexibility for national
crisis management, and ensure that the Armed Forces
resources can be made available for
national crisis management

100

• expand the universal conscription to
apply both sexes, and modernize it in
line with the Armed Forces' requirements
• conduct a comprehensive
personnel and expertise reform in
sector, which also involves a
reviewing officer scheme, and
pursue a personnel policy that supports
personnel structure and assignments
• introduce a scheme for specialist officers in line
with NATO standard
• strengthen the rights of veterans, with emphasis
on health and social follow-up,
financial security and support
dependents work and study an introduction
of a service based scheme
"War pension"

FOREIGN AND DEFENCE

• carry out an evaluation with
aiming for a reform of the current scheme
with integrated strategic management in
Ministry of Defence, and strength
Chief of Defence's role
• conduct a critical review of
forsvarsstrukturens real capacity and
perseverance
• support the NATO permanent
presence in Norway, and add
facilitate increased allied exercise activities and
Activity
• support development of practical Nordic defense cooperation
as an addition to the cooperation with our
NATO allies

All images:
www.colourbox.com

Adopted by the Conservative national convention 3.-5. May 2013

Conservative Association
www.hoyre.no
politikk@hoyre.no
