Pedro Pablo Kuczynski

Alliance for the Great Change

GOVERNMENT PLAN
2011 - 2016

PERU A KINGDOM, MODERN AND WITHOUT POVERTY

CONTENTS

VIEW .....................................................................................................................................................3
PRINCIPLES AND VALUES FOR NATIONAL CONSULTATION ........................................... .... 3
GOALS ........................................................................................................................................................ 4
INTRODUCCIÓN................................................................................................................................... 5
How do we want our first world? .................................................. .................. 5
How will we get there? ................................................................................................................... 6
What commitments as individuals, governments and citizens we must be
willing to comply? ....................................................................................................................... 6
PRINCIPLES AND VALUES FOR NATIONAL CONSULTATION ........................................... . 9
The recognition, protection and defense: ........................................... ........................................... 9
The promotion: ....................................................................................................................................... 10
TOPIC 1: AN PERU WITHOUT POVERTY ........................................... .................................................. ..... eleven
TOPIC 2: CLEAN ENVIRONMENT ............................................ .................................................. . 14
TOPIC 3: FORMAL WORK FOR 80% OF PERUVIAN ....................................... .......... 16
ITEM 4: BASIC SERVICES FOR ALL ......................................... ................. 17
ITEM 5: Universal Health Insurance ........................................... ...................... 19
ITEM 6: PAVED ROADS, LAND FOR HOUSING AND METRO .......... 20
ITEM 7: EFFECTIVE SECURITY AND JUSTICE ........................................... ................................ 22
ITEM 8: BASIC EDUCATION QUALITY AND TECHNOLOGY ......................................... ..... 24
ITEM 9: ENTREPRENEURS ........................................................................................................... 26
UNIT 10: DEFENCE CIVIL................................................................................................................ 28
ITEM 11: EFFECTIVE DECENTRALIZATION ............................................. ................................. 29
ITEM 12: INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING ............................................. ........................... 31
THE FUTURE OF YOUTH YOUTH NOT FORGET: ...................................... ......... 37
PRESENTATION OF THE REPORTS OF MONITORING AND EVALUATION ............................. 38

Pag. 2/38

PERU A KINGDOM, MODERN AND WITHOUT POVERTY

Vision Peru

Peru: country without poverty, coupled with progress and opportunities for everyone

Kay Hinallataq Peru llactanchikpi moring pobrezakuna kananpaq and progress llapallanchikpaq
kananpaq

PRINCIPLES AND VALUES
The recognition, protection and defense:
The dignity of the human person and his fundamental rights.
Of human life from conception to natural death.
The family as the basic and fundamental institution of society.
Of society and its primacy over the state.
The common good as the set of spiritual conditions, material and cultural
that enable people to fully develop.
Work as a right and duty for every human being that is dignified and is done
as a person.
Property as a fundamental right to personal and social purposes.
The rule of law, the system of representative democracy and the right of
participation of every citizen to build the future of their homeland.
Of truth as the only valid resource for dialogue and debate.
Inclusive participation of all Peruvians, regardless of sex,
race, physical condition, creed or economic, political or social status.
The promotion:
Solidarity, freedom, equality and justice as the foundation of
social harmony, development and peace.
Of moral and civic values ​​and principles on which society must be founded and
particularly political activity.
In the education and health services as priority factors
combat poverty and the root causes.
Appropriate mechanisms for the control of the government and officials
public.
Sustainable economic development, preserving and improving the environment.
Private investment as the engine of the economy.
The social market economy as an economic model for development
country
Decentralization as a permanent process and essential for development
the country and its different regions.
Respect for different cultural and religious identities in the country.
Awareness and Peruvian identity as a reality of miscegenation
miscegenation of all Peruvians should be proud.
Pag. 3/38

PERU A KINGDOM, MODERN AND WITHOUT POVERTY

GOALS

1.

A Peru without poverty

2.

Clean environment

3.

Formal employment for 80% of Peruvians

Four.

Basic services for everyone

5.

Universal Insurance

6.

Paved roads, housing land and underground

7.

Effective security and justice

8.

Basic education and quality technology

9.

Entrepreneurs

10.

Civil defense

eleven.

Effective decentralization

Pag. 4/38

PERU A KINGDOM, MODERN AND WITHOUT POVERTY

INTRODUCTION

Today Peru is a country that progresses socially and economically, but has not had the courage
to carry out political reforms which are essential to abandon the condition
poor and fractured country.

We are proud of our culinary talent represented by our large and
small entrepreneurs; but in the meantime, two thirds of our workforce has
health insurance and pension will not, since it operates in conditions
inequality and "informal".
Many Peruvians, including millions of entrepreneurs believe that the "formalization" fare
to take something and, conversely, formalizing will give them benefits and satisfaction that today there
They have.

No casual country has become modern. It is time to discard the myths surrounding this
issue and take an important step towards modernity to defeat poverty once and for
all.

Now, after almost a decade of economic improvement, we have the opportunity to give
great leap forward.

We focus on sectors in which there is significant public investment needs,
recognizing that there are others in which public-private policies already drawn with
quite successful.

The key is to promote a dynamic and sustainable economy in order to fight
successfully against poverty and ignorance.

Our vision is that Peru is a country without poverty, coupled with progress and opportunities for
all

How do we want our first world?

It will be as it should be. Made to our measure, with values ​​and principles that we
magnify as society and reunite us with the historic grandeur of our
peoples. Because Peruvians do things unique and creative way.

Pag. 5/38

PERU A KINGDOM, MODERN AND WITHOUT POVERTY

We will make a more just society with better distribution of wealth, with higher self-esteem
social, less violence and more respect for the environment and our ancient culture,
which it is both the source of our wealth.

How will we get there?

We assume two challenges: to eradicate poverty now afflicts a third of the population and achieve
Peru's economy to grow by over 7% per year over the next decade.

What commitments as individuals, governments and citizens we must be
willing to comply?

Alliance assumes the following commitments:
Commitment 1: Promoting decent work with insurance and retirement pension
all workers.
Commitment 2: Eliminate extreme poverty in 10 years.
Commitment 3:

Support small farmers ("prosperous Agro") with roads,

seeds and technical services.
Commitment 4: Accelerate the development of micro, small and medium enterprises.
Commitment 5: Reduce child mortality and eliminating malnutrition.
Commitment 6:

Establish well-equipped health care posts 24

Commitment 7:

Invest 30 billion soles in water and sanitation in 10 years

hours.

to give coverage to Peruvian without water.
Commitment 8: Give users participation in water and sewerage companies.
Commitment 9: Reserve land suitable for the construction of public housing;
create new satellite towns connected by light rail to the capital.
Commitment 10: Dramatically improve citizen security: more police, with
better coordination with municipalities. Tough on crime and drug trafficking.
Commitment 11: To modernize the armed forces and revive the Military and Police Safety of
Pensions, well managed and financed.
Commitment 12: Improving and simplifying public administration, with officials
high level by entering exam and are better paid.
Commitment 13: Decentralize the presence of the Ministry of Economy and Finance
to support the regions and municipalities in the preparation and monitoring of projects.
Commitment 14: frontally combat corruption at all levels: severe
penalties for paying and receiving bribes.
Commitment 15: Reduce taxes to promote greater formality. Reduce VAT
to 15% in five years.
Commitment 16:

Provide social benefits to workers of services.
Pag. 6/38

PERU A KINGDOM, MODERN AND WITHOUT POVERTY

Commitment 17: To ensure the payment of minimum living wage and gradually increase it.
Commitment 18: Improving the quality of public education to increase investment
7% of GDP.
Commitment 19: Supporting technical courses and offer scholarships for scientific studies
on the outside.
Commitment 20: Strengthen the Agricultural Bank as a guarantee fund for boxes
rural and municipal systems group loans.
Commitment 21: To accelerate rural electrification across the country.
Commitment 22: Use the proceeds from the Canon Law to improve roads
regional and provincial.
Commitment 23: Create technical education centers for agricultural, industrial and mining in
regions as well as sports and cultural centers for youth.
Commitment 24: Fighting the abuses of the environment through the creation
Police Environment, funded by Canon.
Commitment 25: To increase significantly and planned manner, remuneration
teachers, police, military, and doctors and nurses, demanding higher
efficiency.

But the commitment we need to take, everyone, is honesty. We need to be
honest with ourselves and with others; we need our rulers
They want our people with honesty; parents who educate our children
with love, respect and responsibility for others and the country; and that the sons and daughters
understand that a new Peru awaits us and we have to be worthy to receive the
country that is built with the sweat of millions of Peruvians of many
generations.

The big change is giving the effort of everyone, is the time when our
rulers join in this great change, direct and lead our country is no longer
an obstacle to success and has become an opportunity as a reason for
achieve it.

Our visionary government of a developed country, is no stranger to our
political commitments, the Millennium Development Goals, Global Covenants, National Accord Plan
National Strategic Development, among others, remain viable compliance challenges.

We ask you to let us govern with honesty to contribute to this great
However, because we know how.

Pag. 7/38

PERU A KINGDOM, MODERN AND WITHOUT POVERTY

Dreams begin to come true when we start thinking that are possible.
We work together to succeed.

Pag. 8/38

PERU A KINGDOM, MODERN AND WITHOUT POVERTY

PRINCIPLES AND VALUES FOR THE NATIONAL COORDINATION

The recognition, protection and defense:
Dignity of the human person, with transcendent destiny and rights
fundamental. Human dignity is the main foundation for coexistence
between people, and requires us to implement an inclusive governance, where the
respect and tolerance to different social and cultural expressions are the basis for
social integration.
Of human life, from conception to natural death.
The family as a basic and fundamental institution of society.
Society and the primacy of the individual over the state.
Common cultural Well, as all spiritual conditions, materials and
that enable people to fully develop. It is the good of all
and people each, implying the promotion of human beings in their different
spheres (social, cultural, economic and political) and the task of articulating a democracy
participatory development-oriented and benefit everyone, especially
those in social and economic vulnerability (children, youth,
elderly, marginalized sectors, etc.), with a preferential option for the fair and more
poor.
Work, right and duty by which every human being is dignified and is done
as a person.
Private, individual and communal property as a fundamental right purposes
personal and social.
Democratic rule of law, the balance of power, the regime
representative guaranteeing freedom of expression and the right to democracy
participation that every citizen has to build the future
their homeland. Involving the active participation of each presence in Peru and Peruvian
decision-making, in order to contribute to the common good. Based on this authority
should foster dialogue and cooperation as an essential mechanism of a
true participatory democracy.
In truth, as the only valid resource for dialogue and debate, based on the
facts of reality, as the foundation to ensure an honest governance,
transparent and efficient; subordinating the decision of the authority according to Good
Common and independence of self-interest within the legal order.
The more active participation of women, the elderly, persons with
differentiated (disability) capacity of people in vulnerable situations,
indigenous peoples, peasant and indigenous communities, Afro-Peruvians in life
social, economic and political life.

Pag. 9/38

PERU A KINGDOM, MODERN AND WITHOUT POVERTY

The promotion:
Solidarity, Liberty, Equality and Justice, as the foundation of
social harmony, development and peace.
Solidarity, which requires the state to take ownership interest in others,
Based on a strong commitment to unity and cooperation; to construct
collective future based on common goals and shared interests, the
authority should prioritize in its management, and as a mechanism for promoting equity and
opportunities for all.
Freedom, guarantee plurality and diversity that is inherent in social life,
inseparable from the sense of responsibility and respect for public order, being
foundation management effectively and efficiently based on shared effort.
Equality, guarantee a true vocation of service in the performance of the
management, ensuring equal opportunities at all levels and ensuring non-
discrimination.
Justice, warranty management that manages resources with austerity,
rationality, impartiality and avoiding all kinds of privileges.
Of moral and civic values ​​and principles on which society must be founded and
particularly political action.
Integral Education and Health Services, as priority areas for
combat poverty and the root causes.
Appropriate mechanisms to combat corruption through
transparency, accountability, oversight and government officials
public.
Sustainable, inclusive, equitable economic development, preserving the environment
environment in its transverse dimension, respecting and guaranteeing the rights
fundamental.
Private investment as the engine of the economy.
The principle of subsidiarity, in addition to a Social Economy
Market at the service of human freedom centered morality; and requiring the
a position of public management support and promotion regarding all players
social initiatives and facilitating their responsibility to the community, which implies
that the authority has full respect for the autonomy of social organizations
all kinds (cultural, sports, etc.), providing direct or indirect support in case
need.
Decentralization as a permanent process and essential for development
inclusive of the country and its different regions.
Respect for different religions and cultural identities of the country, ensuring
freedom of conscience and religion.
Awareness of the Peruvian identity as a great reality of miscegenation
of all Peruvians should be proud.

Pag. 10/38

PERU A KINGDOM, MODERN AND WITHOUT POVERTY

TOPIC 1: AN PERU WITHOUT POVERTY

Reduce poverty to at least one tenth of the population and eliminate extreme poverty,
Peruvian reality are the goals of a comprehensive poverty-Peru.

Poverty is a moral and economic issue. Moral, because those who direct the destinies of a
country like Peru should not remain quiet if they realize that one in three
Peruvians live unworthily; and economic, because a society where a third of the
people have no purchasing power; We trims, inadvertently, the chances of
set development.

More than a third of the Peruvian population, ie approximately 10 million people,
She lives in poverty and 12% in extreme poverty:

i.

Unworthy households in marginal areas, without water or drainage;

ii.

Inadequate food;

iii.

Unemployment and precarious and poorly paid jobs;

iv.

Users of public transport and unworthy poor technical conditions
generated countless accidents;

v.

Exposure to crime; Y,

saw.

Lack of social security and labor rights to all, without respect or
dignity, facing situations of absolute insecurity.

Programs to combat poverty alleviating poverty but not defeated. It has certainly
been a visible improvement in reducing the proportion of poor people. In 2001, after
an economic and political crisis, the poverty rate was 54%; in 2006, at the end of
President Alejandro Toledo, was down to 44% and by 2011, the end of the government of Alan
Garcia, the percentage will be down in about 33 or 34%. The challenge is to go faster.

There is great potential for development. The population in poverty looking for
integrated market, expect and need opportunities to be part of the great change that
Peru needs. The poorest in Peru are mainly in rural areas. For that
why it is essential to have a strategy to develop agriculture if we really want
eliminate poverty. For example, small farmers in the highlands and the Amazon-and,
Indeed, throughout Peru lacks essential services for success: acquisition
improved seeds; access to machinery, via cooperatives or funds that rent equipment;
Training in technical information; participation in crop storage and
information on markets and prices; reliable and safe transport; good roads
communication, electricity, etc.

Pag. 11/38

PERU A KINGDOM, MODERN AND WITHOUT POVERTY

The Peruvian economy has shown positive economic performance because it has more
financial resources throughout its republican history. The private sector has taken one
sustainable pace of accumulation inserted openly to global competition. The
macroeconomic stability and penetration rate of private investment have allowed
the economy face the consequences of the international crisis. The merit of this growth is
in the entrepreneurial dynamism and development of private investment mainly. Without
But this growth has not achieved progress for all. What for
this possible it requires a State to maximize its distributive capacity in such a way
there are no groups of citizens excluded: Economic growth without
adequate income distribution generates expectations and frustration in the population not
It is included in the benefits of growth.

Peru has in the coming years the best chance in its history to succeed. He
key element is maintaining rapid economic growth, with good rating
financial no inflation in order to have the resources with which to invest in reducing the
poverty and all sectors: education, health, technology, agriculture and infrastructure, including
others. We are fortunate to be a country with rich energy and mining and other large
natural resources in our vast geographical areas. We are also fortunate to be
a country of entrepreneurial talent and initiative, although she works in a cluttered environment
informal promoted by the bureaucracy and over-regulation.

We know that to achieve economic growth we must invest, and to flourish
investment must be predictable rules. What we see in some Latin
America and what we saw here in the past -estatizaciones, price controls, subsidies,
state control, constant change of rules, bureaucracy and corruption only leads to
misery. However, on the road to prosperity, there are some paradoxes, sometimes,
difficult to understand: for example, an open economy is more adaptable and efficient than a
economy that is closed against the import of products and ideas; price controls
It generates shortages and inflation; and high tax rates, far from generating more revenue, the
Otherwise, tax evasion and poverty occur. Another apparent paradox in the way the
prosperity is that we need stable rules for -small or large investors,
national or foreign but also need a flexible state that suits the
changing circumstances of a constantly evolving economy.

Running these proposals, will no longer be a country with 10 million poor people, but
a modern country, in which lay the foundations so that in 10 years we reduce the
poverty to one tenth of the population and eliminate extreme poverty. This is the great
challenge of the coming years.

Pag. 12/38

PERU A KINGDOM, MODERN AND WITHOUT POVERTY

The cost of the investment plan of poverty reduction outlined here is
about 5% of GDP per year, starting from 1 to 2% in 2012 and reaching a
5% from 2014-2015. Each 1% of GDP is roughly equivalent to S / .4 000 million
prices and levels today, and will increase with the growth of the economy.

Pag. 13/38

PERU A KINGDOM, MODERN AND WITHOUT POVERTY

TOPIC 2: CLEAN ENVIRONMENT

Lima is the most polluted city in America and our rivers and jungle they are being
contaminated by various illegal mining activities and waste. Therefore urges
accelerate the efforts of the new Ministry of Environment and creating a police environment.

Peru is one of the 15 most biologically diverse countries in the world for its great
variety of flora, fauna and continental and marine ecosystems. However, such
biodiversity

comes

being

threatened

by

the

growing

contamination

environmental.

Additionally, the population suffers the loss of quality of life caused by contamination
rivers and watersheds, among others, mine tailings, waste and industrial waste and
erosion of slopes.

In our country the water is wasted even though there are 10 million Peruvians not
They have potable water in their homes. Water is lost at sea or seeps into the cities. The
lack of access to water forces people who lack it, to collect water
directly from canals, rivers or rely on tankers to stock, paying
higher prices for poor quality water and exposed to infectious diseases.

Similarly, sewerage infrastructure and wastewater treatment is
poor. Twelve million people still lack sewers and treatment
wastewater is barely 25%, which means that a large part of drains
and wastewater is not properly treated, pollute watersheds and
generating negative effects on health and the environment.

Even if they have been relative progress in recent years to implement
law and state institutions for environmental management, such as the recent creation
the Ministry of Environment, the fact is that still exists regarding deficiency
compliance with environmental obligations on the part of society and industry, and
as the oversight role by the State aimed at prevention, respect and guarantee
right to live in a healthy environment.

It is therefore necessary to organize a comprehensive policy on culture and environmental management and
Also effective monitoring to what we propose:

to. Planning systems watershed conservation, reforestation and other water savings
agriculture and urban consumption.
b. Plan the staggering and conservation of coastal rivers, the groundwater recharge
groundwater.

Pag. 14/38

PERU A KINGDOM, MODERN AND WITHOUT POVERTY

c.

Accelerating efforts of the Ministry of Environment and create an environmental police
that is well financed and has the financial and physical means to combat abuses,
such as pollution of rivers by irresponsible or informal mining enterprises,
Illegal logging of Amazonian forests and processing tailings in rivers of drugs
mountain eyebrow. Environmental police will allow certain areas
our country are reserved for certain activities (dumps for clearing and
waste treatment, mining and quarrying, etc.) and in other areas such ban
activities. Environmental police will be financed by a portion of mining royalties
and hydrocarbons.

d. Strengthen the culture of the environment as part of the educational training.

In order to fund the creation of the Fiscal Police of the Canon you are used at a cost
net tax of 0.5% of GDP per year.

Pag. 15/38

PERU A KINGDOM, MODERN AND WITHOUT POVERTY

TOPIC 3: FORMAL WORK FOR 80% OF PERUVIAN

Currently, only 35% of the working age population has formal employment,
our goal is to reach at least 80%. This will allow workers access
social security and a system of saving for a pension; this goal
the State will improve tax collection and can reduce taxes. To achieve this
goal, without the expense of people who have a formal job, it is necessary
following:

i.

Ensure that new workers entering access payroll system
unemployment insurance to keep them for a period, 50% of its revenue from
payroll in case of unemployment;

ii.

Forcing services and other outsourced work to provide social insurance and access to
a pension scheme for all workers, even in the case of jobs
short term;

iii.

Granting a tax benefit (5 points in the applicable tax rate
utilities) to the firm which add 10% or more of new workers in their
Formal return in a year;

iv.

Sticking to a plan of gradual annual increase of living wage on the basis
dialogue between labor, business and government; Y,

v.

Implement a plan to reduce the VAT from 19% today to 15% in 4-5 years This
Thus, this tax is better manage and reduce tax evasion. Once the
rate reaches 15%, you will see if you can reduce even further.

The benefit of formalization will have a greater tax collection
will represent an additional 5% of the average GDP per year, starting with 1% on the
2012 and arriving at additional 7% in 2021.

Pag. 16/38

PERU A KINGDOM, MODERN AND WITHOUT POVERTY

ITEM 4: BASIC SERVICES FOR ALL

By 2021 everyone should have water, electricity and Internet in their homes except rural areas more
remote, everyone should have access to a well-organized local system to supply water
drain and clean housing. By that date, all drains must be treated, to
Unlike today where only 25% have a treatment.

The country's progress in economic matters; set an auspicious outlook for Peru.
However, there is still inequity that must be worked from the state
with technical criteria and specific approaches.

In Peru there are 10 million people without potable water in their homes and
12 million people do not have sewer service. However,
obsolescence networks Sedapal in Lima causes a loss of water that reaches the
30% and 24 Sanitation Public Enterprises (EPS) loss increases to 40%
administering water.

Approximately 18% of the population uses tanks for water supply
drinking, generating with this fact high prices and consumption by poor water quality
have to be stored in inappropriate places. As a result of the lack of connection,
poorest pay more for water than people with more resources. for another
side, 11% of the population is in the category of "no household connection" but
with nearby fountain, which it is directly related to high rates of disease
stomach in slums.

All the above shows that water companies are not fulfilling their
function due to their lack of managerial capacity and the political use of them. It is therefore
essential to reform the system, to ensure that all Peruvians access services
water and drain. For this it is necessary to provide the Supervisory Body (SUNASS)
sufficient authority to monitor such undertakings and fulfill their role of promoting
investment in water supply infrastructure in line with the needs of the population.

A comprehensive reform of public sanitation companies arises, so that the
users and citizens are shareholders and directors of companies are not only
the mayors of turn. This can be done by the so-called popular capitalism,
scheme already used in England and in relatively short time to achieve the efficiency of
same and business owners also feel citizens.

Setup accelerate water and sewage, to reach 95% of the
population in 10 years. One aspect of the program is the principal water treatment
Pag. 17/38

PERU A KINGDOM, MODERN AND WITHOUT POVERTY

served, and the cost of this investment will be 10,000 million in 10 years or 28,000
millions of suns, so the improvement is included in the basins of the rivers
coast. Peru in the coming years should aim to concession more such treatment plants
as it is being done in Taboada north of Lima, in addition to meter reading
Current prevent corruption and forgery.

Finally, in terms of basic services, investment will be prioritized in public infrastructure
and private, works to democratize public services and access and be given importance
the acceleration of the expansion of rural electrification.

The percentage of the population with access to safe water on the coast reached a 2007
83.5% while in the mountains came to 56.6% and 44.7% jungle.

Also, the percentage of the population with access to sanitation in 2008 skirted 75.7%
on the coast while still only reached 34.9% in the mountains and 30.9% in the jungle, being only
8.1% in rural areas.

Additional fiscal spending: 0.5% of GDP additional water and sanitation by year 2011- 2020.
Additional 1.0% of GDP to public health per year, from 2011 to 2020.

Pag. 18/38

PERU A KINGDOM, MODERN AND WITHOUT POVERTY

ITEM 5: Universal Health Insurance

We will provide universal health insurance assuring Peruvians access to a
health insurance consist of a basic plan, which guarantees medical care and
medicines. In public health, maternal and infant mortality will be reduced by 20 1000
births to no more than 7, and child malnutrition will be removed, which prevails today in the
Mountain range. In addition, frontally it attacks of contagious and serious diseases,
others, such as tuberculosis, dengue and HIV / AIDS. It will also encourage the
workers to make private health insurance. Also, nurseries will be created
Children in all workplaces of more than 100 workers to facilitate the work
Mothers paid.

In Peru it has made great progress in public health, for example, infant mortality has
reduced from 34 per 1000 live births in 2000 to 20 per 1000 in 2010; expectation
Life has reached 72 and you can reach 78 if we reduce infant mortality by half.

On the other hand, there are unacceptable situations such as the fact that there are still 10
million Peruvians without water in their homes, 12 million without sewer and most
untreated sewage and contaminate rivers, lakes and the sea. This is alarming because the
main causes of infant mortality are contaminated water (water trucks,
ditches) and child malnutrition, related phenomena. You can not ignore the fact
Peru has one of the highest rates of infectious diseases resistant to
antibiotics obviously is several species of tuberculosis.

The solution to these problems is long term but it's time to lay the foundations
The following actions with an investment of 1.0% of GDP to public health:
i.

Ensure universal health insurance progressively over three years;

ii.

Through agreements complement the services provided by the centers of the Ministry
Health and Essalud and guarantee the autonomy of alternative systems providers
Hospitals and Solidarity and others created and driven by other levels
regional or municipal government, demanding that meet appropriate levels of
quality;

iii.

Encourage the purchase of private insurance for those who can hire them;

iv.

Substantially increase investment effectiveness and better public health
salaries for doctors and nurses in the public sector, health posts
equipped and open 24 hours, improving hospitals and medical service:
beds, diagnostic systems and reducing waiting; Y,

v.

Seek a financial surplus, with the contributions of young people entering work
formally.

Pag. 19/38

PERU A KINGDOM, MODERN AND WITHOUT POVERTY

ITEM 6: PAVED ROADS, LAND FOR HOUSING AND METRO
In infrastructure there are three main priorities:

1. All provincial capitals, except the eastern Amazon, should have a road network
tarred with the rest of the country;
2. The State shall promote the organization of the territory so that, around
big cities, land for housing mulyifamiliares book, instead of the system
Current, which favors speculation and land traffic, and sending people into
inaccessible slopes; Y
3. A true Metro should be built in Lima, to decongest the public transport
decontaminate the city, which has the highest pollution in America today. an effect
This important road plan is to promote the development and prosperity of a new
and solid middle class in our country.

According to studies of the Peruvian Institute of Economics (IPE) the infrastructure deficit
in Peru requires about US $ 25,000 million investment to achieve effective
levels necessary for the consolidation of our development. The Peruvian State and
Regional and local governments have more resources for investment in
infrastructure as a result of increased tax collection and distribution
through the canon. The resources available for fee and overfee passed from 2000 to
Currently, from 55 to more than 6,000 million dollars a year, which can be stated
the economic growth projected for the coming years will generate a potential circle
virtuoso with better provision of infrastructure.

This means that there is more lack of financial resources in Peru to possess
class infrastructure, better management is only necessary to apply these
resources effectively and efficiently and reverse the current situation of sub-national governments and
the central government, have invested on average 60% and 70% of the resources available,
respectively.

On the other hand, access to private property in Peru remains largely
casual, invasions are carried out in inhospitable terrain, which hinder placement
basic services such as water and sanitation, electricity, transportation and tracks low
cost. This is still the norm, especially around large cities, where
occupation of land unsuitable for housing, allows land dealers swarm
providing nonexistent titles, plus the reality is that the official title is
slow.

Faced with the problems described propose:

Pag. 20/38

PERU A KINGDOM, MODERN AND WITHOUT POVERTY

1. Work with the regions to promote, in each, a program of
construction and maintenance of provincial paved tracks and roads,
rail networks.
2. Use canon resources for maintenance of regional and provincial roads.
3. Rearrange the land titling system, implement a national policy
appropriate urban planning reserving land for housing development
popular, create new satellite towns connected by light rail and
implement an effective policy for protecting the environment, including policy
water care.

Pag. 21/38

PERU A KINGDOM, MODERN AND WITHOUT POVERTY

ITEM 7: EFFECTIVE SECURITY AND JUSTICE

Security and justice will be effective if we have restructured the national police
full time, with a better system serenazgo in big cities and judges
applying proportionate sanctions to the offense committed, ie, severity against it
the seriousness of the crime, such as murder of policemen, rape, abduction,
illicit drug trafficking.

Peru is now a country less secure than a few years ago. Ten years ago the rate of
homicide was low (5 per 100 000 population), but today has risen to 15 per 100,000, one
alarming rate. This reality is the result of the rise of drug trafficking: more
domestic consumption, increasing presence of Colombian and Mexican cartels, and proliferation
gangs in cities such as El Callao, Lima and Trujillo, among others. From there it becomes
increasing the feeling of insecurity among the population.

The problem of insecurity is exacerbated by the lack of enforcement
adequate equipment and logistics provision, financially weakened are not
have proportional to risky tasks performed remuneration.

Moreover, the judiciary is one of the most discredited institutions of Peru,
according to a survey by Datum (2009), 75% of the population believes that the work of the
judges is bad or very bad for the country's welfare. Unfortunately, the judiciary, to
Despite the efforts, it maintains a level of performance below expectations
population.

Faced with this problem the following measures are proposed with the aim of achieving a country
more safe:

1. A new system of work for more police presence on the streets and
stations, working in normal times and well paid;
2. Better coordination with serenazgo systems of municipalities, using
standardized systems of monitoring and reporting, and increasing the number of
serene in the poorest areas, which today do not have the resources to pay.
3. Make profound changes in the judicial system: eliminate tolerance and the benefits to
criminals, the light sentences, the tricks, the documentary requirements left
helpless to honest police and to say 'We must eliminate corruption in the
Judiciary and the police themselves.
4. Encourage greater collaboration between the national police and the armed forces for their
joint and coordinated action, using helicopters and cargo planes, among others,

Pag. 22/38

PERU A KINGDOM, MODERN AND WITHOUT POVERTY

case of natural emergencies such as earthquakes and landslides, and also attacks
terrorists financed by drug trafficking, which affects the population and civil defense.
5. Total Reform of Military and Police Pension Fund, whereby the State takes
existing obligations of the Fund, and a new box is created for new entrants
the Armed Forces and the National Police; This new fund would be managed by
Professional financial advisors with international experience, chosen through
a tender.
6. Modernization of the Armed Forces and provision of resources necessary for their function
Basic modern country in a border with five countries: basic deterrence border
(Eg. In the area of ​​the Putumayo River), capacity at sea and air to intercept
illicit trafficking (eg, drugs), internal capacity against terrorists in some
areas of the country. Better wages and less ornate structures make Forces
Armed much more efficient and competitive.

Pag. 23/38

PERU A KINGDOM, MODERN AND WITHOUT POVERTY

ITEM 8: BASIC EDUCATION QUALITY AND TECHNOLOGY

The keys to success are education and technology, therefore, considering that
Educational Police have priority, we intend to achieve the following goals:

1.

Improve the quality of primary and secondary public education, mainly in the
poorest in the country and create sports and cultural centers for youth in areas
large rural and urban areas.

2.

Promote cultural revolution that recognizes the technical merit of the diploma, although
has no college degree; Y,

3.

Reforming the university system.

Four.

Promote research and patents ease.

The educational reality in Peru presents the latest reform by the last two
Governments, was insufficient to improve the quality of education. The amendment does not
She attended by teachers demanding better and deserved remuneration; the
educational infrastructure, in most cases, remains precarious (for example,
many schools in the highlands and the Amazon do not have bathrooms); access to books continues
still quite limited and, among others, the limited number of colleges makes the system
current two shifts perennice placing students at inappropriate times.

Moreover, technical education has been culturally devalued by the fact that
technical professional has no college degree. This has generated little support
the government and the business at this level, even if its importance is
evident in agriculture, industry and mining.

Finally, with regard to university education in Peru they have created approximately
100 universities besides its numerous branches, none of which is
within the 300 best in the world, demonstrating the abundance of universities not
ensures the quality of education. The main problems that impede access to quality
university education are:

i.

The almost zero percentage of resources devoted to research,

ii.

The politicization of students rather than the quality of teaching and,

iii.

Undemanding requirements for teacher recruitment.

This situation will be reversed if the investment is increased public education to 7% of GDP and if
the following steps are taken:

Pag. 24/38

PERU A KINGDOM, MODERN AND WITHOUT POVERTY

In school education:
to. A plan of gradual but significant improvement in the remuneration of teachers;
b. Rehabilitation and reconstruction of infrastructure;
c. Creating a program of books and e-books to facilitate access to these in their homes,
stimulating reading and understanding; Y,
d. Intelligent building new schools.
e. Analytical system more rote teaching.

In technical education:
to. The government together with business leaders believe between 15 and 20 high schools
technical mining-industrial-agro in the main regions of Peru;
b. young people enter an examination to finish third on average;
c. they would as internal to these technical institutes in which, for five years, would specialize
themselves in one of three lines expertise: agriculture, industry or
mining.

In college:
to. promote research;
b. apply more stringent requirements to be a teacher; Y,
c. Create a system of grants for high-level scientific studies at universities
recognized in the world.
d. Promote public - private initiative as the basis for the development of scientific studies
university.

Pag. 25/38

PERU A KINGDOM, MODERN AND WITHOUT POVERTY

ITEM 9: ENTREPRENEURS

The "Sierra Exportadora" program is a good start to promote the work of the
entrepreneurs, but not enough. Now we must go further. The small farmer in
Sierra and in the Amazon and, indeed, throughout Peru - lacks essential services
to succeed, because it can not acquire improved seeds, machinery access via
cooperatives or funds that rent equipment; training in technical information; participate in the
crop storage and access necessary information on markets and prices;
reliable and safe transport; good roads and electricity. Thus,
We propose a comprehensive seven-point program to achieve poverty reduction
by thriving agro:

1. Small farmers (with less than ten hectares of farmland and less than 100
cattle), will have access to improved seeds and fertilizer at cost, with advice
art in a public / private program, which will be financed partly by the government
Central and regions. This program will provide market information and storage
Harvesting its participants. Example of "Sierra Productive" will follow successful
public / private program in the southern highlands.
2. Improve the effectiveness of the Agricultural Bank. In addition to his current duties, the bank
strengthen the performance of

rural and municipal savings and banks

wishing to participate in supporting small and medium farmers and cooperatives and
rural communities, through guarantee funds, so that grant loans
supervised (with technical assistance from agronomists).
3. The guarantee system has worked well for mortgage loans "My Home"
("Good payer Award", established in 2000). Therefore, you must create a system
Legal similar for agricultural credits, where the lack of supervision and frequent
amnesties have encouraged blackberries and shortcomings.
4. Speed ​​up the rural electrification system to reach a rural electric coverage
allow us to move from 50% currently to 95%.
5. work with the regions to encourage in each, program
construction and maintenance of provincial courts and paved roads.
Canon Law should be amended to allow a portion of those funds can be
devoted to the maintenance of regional and provincial roads.
6. Following successful examples of international cooperation in Cajamarca, Cusco and
Elsewhere in the mountains, "Agro Prospero" promote comprehensive small irrigation projects
Andean technical assistance, credit, improved seeds and animals.
7. It will create between 15 and 20 technical regional agricultural colleges, with their own
Facilities for inmates and their own crops and land, to which young people
regions can learn agricultural technology applied. Graduates of these
schools will have the equivalent of three years of technical secondary, more the first two
Pag. 26/38

PERU A KINGDOM, MODERN AND WITHOUT POVERTY

college years, recognized in a diploma. Also, depending on their
locations, these schools could also offer lessons and industrial lines
mining.
8. the river basins will be sorted in dry areas, especially the coast, by
a system of staggered rivers allow its waters seep into the
and groundwater recharge, and thus will prevent the water from being wasted
sea.

The fiscal cost of Prosperous Agriculture represents 0.5% to 1% of GDP per year.

Pag. 27/38

PERU A KINGDOM, MODERN AND WITHOUT POVERTY

ITEM 10: CIVIL DEFENSE

Our country is located in a highly seismic region and address the
climatic consequences of global warming (generating from natural phenomena such
such as frost, drought, floods, El Niño and La Niña). Tragic
consequences of the earthquake in August 2007, showed that there are no public policies
aimed at prevention in case of earthquakes that avoid and / or minimize losses
human and material.

With the seismic prevention plan the following actions are performed:

i.

Identify sources of increased vulnerability for being in highly seismic areas
and / or precarious buildings, to take early preventive measures;

ii.

Conduct seminars for education, training and preparation of brigades aimed at
population in order to plan and execute coordinated actions in case of
disasters;

iii.

Provide mechanisms to ensure greater compliance with the effectuation
rules;

iv.

Possible the work of the National Civil Defense System for prevention and care
disasters; Y,

v.

Strengthen the infrastructure of schools, hospitals, fire stations and all
those institutions that meet established on assistance plans
civil defense in case of disasters providing more resources to enforce these
measures.

saw.

Encourage an organized voluntary youth and population in general,
respond to disasters.

Pag. 28/38

PERU A KINGDOM, MODERN AND WITHOUT POVERTY

ITEM 11: EFFECTIVE DECENTRALIZATION

Effective decentralization will take place if the executing capacity is improved
regions and municipalities. At present, several regions and municipalities receive
enormous resources from the canon that fail to invest productively. Is
inefficiency situation will be reversed if the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of
Transport and Communications include such places its technical officers
view to achieving efficient spending.

Historically throughout the republican era noted the need to decentralize
our country, to date, the implementation of erratic policies and the ineffectiveness of the same,
It has not achieved achievements in this regard, and this finally answers the lack of decision and
political will, which results in the absence of a comprehensive strategy
decentralization. Also, growth and development seen in coastal regions,
while a completely contrary effect occurs in regions of the mountains and jungle,
which results in insufficient job opportunities and a lower quality of life.

Also, the distribution of resources to regional and municipal governments under
fiscal decentralization in place is too uneven. While there
municipalities receive for monthly fees, sobrecanon, royalties, customs and income
shares (equivalent to more than 55 thousand soles per capita - 2007 figure), other 162
municipalities receive less than a sun person in this connection. In the same sense,
in 2007 and 2008, 1% of local government (18 municipalities) captured about
one third of the total allocated to these governments by the aforementioned concept figure
of over two-thirds when it is considering the 10% municipalities.

In this line of thought, we affirm that the decentralization process has been so
messy and hasty, there has been no proper coordination between the central government and
regional governments, provincial and district municipalities (eg these governments
They have a minimum base of public officials to give continuity to the management).

On the other hand a key factor that explains the lack of substantive progress and the lack of quality
Overall spending is linked to the inefficiency of public spending. This is because the systems
State administration have ample need for modernization; the
progress in the Budget by Results are slow and the country continues to attach
resources based on inputs rather than outcomes (there is no appraisal system
post projects and implementing complex systems and resources facing a bureaucracy in
most skilled inefficiently). On the other hand, it has a series of decentralized
skills but many lack the organizational and capital support

Pag. 29/38

PERU A KINGDOM, MODERN AND WITHOUT POVERTY

adequate human or transfer of budget items that allow
implementation of these projects decentralization (civil defense, for example).
Finally, for effective decentralization "Commitment" is first,
decentralize the presence of the Ministry of Finance to support the
regions and municipalities in the preparation and monitoring of projects, second
implement a comprehensive decentralization strategy that allows having a transverse axis
MEF technical cooperation and jointly MTC, thus allowing one
efficient implementation of public policies that create an appropriate transfer
budget allocations for effective and efficient decentralization.

Pag. 30/38

PERU A KINGDOM, MODERN AND WITHOUT POVERTY

ITEM 12: INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING

Peru needs a clean, proactive, honest and competitive public administration as
in most developed countries in Latin America, it is governments that
hinder their political institutionalization lashing plans bureaucracy,
Changing legislation does not articulated to the axes of sustainable development, lack of coordination between
various parts of government, corruption, demagoguery, duplication, lack of
transparency, lack of talks of good governance and weak accountability.

Corruption is simply the form of breach of contract between representatives and
citizens. Contract under which the representative not only undertakes compliance
Act (obligation imposed equally on all citizens), but also to act on behalf
of their interests and not in pursuit of their own interests. Following this line,
on the one hand we find the illegal conduct, the conduct parameter
It is made up of legal standards, and other improper conduct, whose parameter
I conduct is constituted by representative type of custom charge / assumed by the
elected politician. The latter obviously encompass the first, operated the channels
requirements and sanctions, and the subject that imposed are different. The former are
enforceable in legal proceedings, sanctions are criminal and subjects that are imposed
are the courts. The latter must be enforceable under the political process and in the
periodic elections, the sanction is the political ostracism and the subject that is imposed
electoral body. However, liability for breach of contract principal-be produced in all cases, while criminal responsibility is only to
act when the conduct for which accounts have alleged infringement pays a
criminal law.

The public exposure of corruption, its subsequent court actions and policies
transparency and accountability on the part of governments and public agents, have
marked the beginning of change in Peruvian history, together with the change
implementation of a sound economic policy, compared to previous decades,
It is leading to higher growth and less involvement of the global crisis are
having developed countries; though we not yet learn to walk. Peru
It has a regulatory framework that provides a wide range of rights and control
participation, such as the consecration of the rights of participation and oversight
citizen under the Constitution and legislative framework that regulates them; however, one of the
problems we face is the vision that authorities still have some respect
citizen participation; because for some officials, citizen participation is
seen as an obstacle and not as a strength and opportunity; without realizing that these
mechanisms are clearly fighting the pandemic that is corruption, and that their struggle is not
Pag. 31/38

PERU A KINGDOM, MODERN AND WITHOUT POVERTY

can be reduced to a simple act of passing laws, as the central aspect is the
operation of government systems; because by nature, not corruption
It is a legal concept, to reason that the law can not give us an answer
accurate, specific and universal a phenomenon that, in itself, is extremely
varied and changing; It is therefore essential, work in a paradigm shift,
mentality and attitudes of people, overcome apathy, disinterest, overcome misinformation and
absenteeism of citizen participation.

In Peru there is a feeling that the public authorities should not be managers
our taxes by inefficiency in budget execution. To this is added the fact
the inability of the three levels of governments not to meet the expectations of the
low-income citizens would cause an increase in the number of conflicts
social (250 to September 2010 compared with 91 in August 2006 when it began in
This government, according to the ombudsman).

It added that the effects of corruption have made it clear that adversely affects
growth and development of Peru. Specific:

1. Increase public investment but reduces their productivity;
2. Increases unproductive current expenditure linked to policies, increasing
inefficient public spending;
3. Reduce the quality of existing infrastructure, as the rapid deterioration favors
repeat business;
4. It reduces government revenue, it favors the black money and tax evasion.

From a deeper perspective, corruption undermines the functioning of the
market based on trust and respect for the rules. Promotes corruption
delegitimization of institutions, because they no longer guarantee the game. With
Therefore, the market disappears in their Ideally, as competition and information
perfect place to stop abuse of power, fraud and manipulation of the rules. In
that context, national and international private investment retracts and allows countries
stuck in their previous situation or worse.

So by proposing a legal and judicial reform you are talking about a whole range of
measures aimed at achieving an independent, effective and honest judiciary. Now
But a judiciary with such conditions is an essential tool in fighting
corruption, otherwise, the judiciary is not an obstacle against corruption, but a
essential element in its reproduction and development. In addition, the judiciary itself is an example
corruption contributes to the legitimization of the political system and undermines the foundations of
governance.

Pag. 32/38

PERU A KINGDOM, MODERN AND WITHOUT POVERTY

So that corruption aggravates the situation. While there has been no systematic corruption,
concentrated and documented on video and in the government of Alberto Fujimori, have
discovered corruption cases, usually following complaints channeled through the press
and no action by the audit Comptroller. The index of perception of corruption
Transparency International and attempts to measure the degree of corruption
public sector, located in Peru ranked 78 among 178 countries (ranked 14th in the region) in 2010,
the first position being the least corrupt. In 2006, the indicator showed Peru ranked
70 out of 163 countries. For its part, the same Office of the Comptroller General of Colombia, entity
immersed in a new reform process, he says he has found evidence of
corruption in approximately 10% of the funds executed by the government. Is
Institution points out that both the absence of sanctioning capacity as the absence of
authority to audit public funds administered by international organizations, are
clear limiting its functions. To this situation is added to the system
Comptroller is too heavy to swiftly detect fraud and corruption in general,
without locking the public investment decisions. Therefore, our government intends to
institutionalization of the Peruvian state the following:

to. implement, annually, a system of accountability to the Executive,
which include ministries and directly dependent on these entities as well as the
Legislative and Parliamentary each;
b. Career boost public with access to state officials by examination,
public and transparent, and ensure competitive salaries with the private sector;
c.

decentralization work through incentives that promote the transfer of official to
other regions, job rotation and promotion on merit; Y,

d. have a professional civil service not only the central government but also in
regions and municipalities to achieve that Peru is a modern country.
e. standardize administrative procedures manuals (MAPRO) through
Technical Secretariat of the PCM.
f.

reformulate the norms of public participation to foster monitoring
more active citizen participation.

In the judicial field
The judiciary was seriously intervened during the Fujimori regime, in which stage
It was a takeover of the courts that lent the most useful purpose
authoritarian regime. Also it prevailed exercise of function in hands
provisional judges and a high level of corruption developed, closely linked to the
political interests of the government. The so-called Judicial Reform was no more than the
some courts equipment and improving the infrastructure of some agencies,

Pag. 33/38

PERU A KINGDOM, MODERN AND WITHOUT POVERTY

but, in substance, in the administration of justice, was the start of the Judiciary and the
Public service of the Ministry authoritarian project.

Unfortunately, the Ministry of Justice, which should be one of the axes of a State
modern, did not have the strength to lead the country's legal paths, with the consequent
serious crisis currently afflicting the political system and the republican form of government.

The Ministry of Justice abdicated their responsibilities and powers, leaving the main
changes in legal hands reform commission codes. Nor he controlled to
fully the quality of the laws given by Congress, abdicating their status as advisor
legal government.

Restored democracy, CERIAJUS (Commission for Comprehensive Reform was created
Administration of Justice), the same as that proposed a package of legal amendments,
administrative and budget for genuine reform of justice.

These works are complemented by the National Agreement for Justice promoted by the Court
Supreme Court of Justice and laudable efforts of civil society organizations. Nevertheless,
progress in these reforms has been slow. There has not been in any real State Power
vocation and commitment to drive the same. However, there are some successful "islands" in the
performance of their duties. The importance of the creation of areas is also recognized
specialized, particularly the family justice. It is still premature to assess the
specializing in the development of commercial justice issues.

Meanwhile, the public still appears very critical to the performance of the judiciary,
having in this sense a majority perception that there is inefficiency and corruption, and
that justice serves no interests and defends people.

On the other hand, the performance of bodies linked to the judicial system has been mixed. The court
Constitutional has been redone through political agreements, which is a bad
appointment procedure, which is reflected in questionable statements. He
Public Ministry carries out its functions autonomously, with no action to do so
protrude or be seriously diminished compared to the general judgment there on justice.

The two agencies have shown immense weaknesses are the National Academy
Judiciary and the National Council of the Judiciary, whose lackluster performance and
prevalence of corporate interests has led to a serious loss of prestige of its function.

Similarly, the Ministry of Justice has abdicated its function of driving policy
passive state coercion, ie, do administratively possible criminal sanctions

Pag. 34/38

PERU A KINGDOM, MODERN AND WITHOUT POVERTY

through the National Penitentiary System, favoring impunity through the removal of
under and breach of prison sanctions crimes.

1. Corruption is not punished with due severity due to limits in the code
criminal, but also to the weakness of the judiciary to apply the full weight of the law to the
corrupt. Reverse situation.
2. The awareness that there are serious problems with the judiciary to deal with themes
and the existence of economic resources and political will can configure the preamble
for genuine reform of the judiciary.

For the above described, our government proposes to follow:
Convert the Ministry of Justice in a real legal adviser to the government, scheduling,
disseminate and coordinate the law and facilitating access to justice. From
this way to support the full restoration of the rule of law, the authority and order.
Propose a new composition of the National Judicial Council to remove his
corporate composition that has proved negative. Admission to the race fee
through a system of evaluation of judges by the National Council renewed
of Magistracy. The judges selected before starting functions carried by
at least one semester of exclusive preparation for the start of their duties,
run by a Judicial Academy, also renewed. Ensure adequate
enforcement of the judiciary and regulate the tax law to ensure career
promotion and / or promotion of judges on the basis of merit and ensure training
permanent.
Promoting a new prison policy of the government, where criminal convictions
greater will be fulfilled until the last day in a prison system without privileges.
Improve transparency in the administration of justice, implementing and optimizing
supervisory bodies of the judiciary.
Implementation of ICT (e-mail notifications, virtual tracking
all levels and specialties to state court proceedings, etc.).
More rapid judgments, resolutions higher quality, the disappearance of corruption,
accordingly with a Judicial prestige for the majority of the population.

There is a myth that informality is good for the country. That is false, because the
informality is detrimental to informal: most earn little, uninsured
possible health or pension. Informality comes mainly from conception
several governments wrong those who believe that high taxes create more
resources for the state. The reality is that generate evasion and therefore fewer resources
prosecutors. Therefore, we need a plan to gradually reduce the rate of VAT and the
Income tax. Similarly, a plan is required for youth to have a
formal work: fiscally reward companies that hire new workers
Pag. 35/38

PERU A KINGDOM, MODERN AND WITHOUT POVERTY

payroll and create unemployment insurance for those new workers (those who already enjoy today
formal work, and have CTS and keep it).

In a country where 80% of employment is formal, rather than the 35% today, will
large surplus in the National Pension System and the AFPs. Thus, it may
finance a radical change in the public health system and gradually improve the service and
insufficient coverage EsSalud and the public health system. Similarly, the AFP,
with greater resources, they can finance large investments in roads, ports,
airports and other infrastructure. But the best will be that millions of Peruvians
They will have a much safer today than they have future. With tax rates more
low, and more formal, fiscal resources increase: instead of collecting 15% of today
Gross domestic product in taxes, we raise about 20%. The VAT will lose
19% to 18, 17, 16 and 15% progressively at a rate of one point per year. The temptation
decrease evasion and resources for large public needs increase; and,
We can improve public education, security, defense and basic infrastructure
you should put the State, such as roads, conservation works
water, assistance to rural areas, and improving public schools.

Public Management Excellence
The three levels of government have developed a management model characterized by
Historic bureaucratic vices, officials have not incorporated modern instruments
economic and financial management, slowness and inefficiency, all of which increase the uncertainty
and distrust among the population. This is reflected in the failure to meet financial goals
budget below 100% and management indicators. Added to this is the fact that these
defects are transmitted to future generations, not allowing new players
change can develop their talents and their professional skills. This, in turn
corruption involves comprehensive public administrative system.

Our government states:
1. Promote governance as a means of measuring and reporting results
accounts.
2. Develop a new financial management platform to guide the implementation of
100% financial targets in the operating plans and records systems
financial administration.
3. Plans for administrative modernization and incentives to good governance practices
4. Training binding transcendental systems management planning,
social projects, urban and investment budget for results.
5. To promote the concept of performance management productivity, stimulating
competitiveness, efficiency and effectiveness of the resources allocated.

Pag. 36/38

PERU A KINGDOM, MODERN AND WITHOUT POVERTY

THE FUTURE OF YOUTH NOT FORGET TO YOUTH:
Our youth are the present and future of Peru. We must deal with it. That means not
only traditional education, which we have already spoken, but also other activities
fundamental for the development of young people. Unfortunately, we do not give importance to
values ​​that help build healthy youth: sports, culture, civic education,
outdoors, cultivating ideals.

We must find more imaginative solutions, for example that large companies
take sports and cultural centers for the young: small complexes that have
space for a soccer field, volleyball another, a gym, a library with access to
Internet. Not only have to fund the construction of the premises, but also
basic operation and equipment: teachers, coaches, books, instruments
music, lighting of the courts, etc. The program "works for taxes" could serve
basis for a start, but it must reform its operation because today the cost is deducted
"Works for taxes" on transfers (such as Canon) receiving municipalities
Central government: it makes the tax works are built only in districts
relatively prosperous that they are least in need.

Young people should identify with this new sports-cultural effort and do with sympathy
spaces for young people who are deployed and where they should be their own
drivers and managers, led by local youth and for young people.

Today large Peruvian companies are winning and prosper as never before. Instead of
wasting a portion of these profits in campaigns to improve his image, why not
propose something new for young people, who will be their future clients in years ?; is
It is shown that well-targeted young people with opportunities of access to education and
with decision-making ability they are able to turn spaces opportunity
opportunities for development and growth, as young entrepreneurs.

Effect of formalization in tax collection involves additional 5% of GDP per year
average, starting with an additional 1% in 2012.

Pag. 37/38

PERU A KINGDOM, MODERN AND WITHOUT POVERTY

PRESENTATION OF THE REPORTS OF MONITORING AND EVALUATION

Law 28411 - General Law on the National Budget System establishes that the
Institutional development of operational plans are taken into account, according to the
current regulations, the Multi Sector Strategic Plan (PESEM) and based on this one
draw up the Institutional Strategic Plan (PEI) of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers.

Following the preparation of the Institutional Strategic Plan (PEI) Operating Plan will be made
Institutional (POI); This plan is one that reflects the physical and financial goals expected
reach for each fiscal year and provide management instruments containing processes
to develop in the short term; ensuring the necessary tasks with a focus on
budget results and the opportunity of each level implementation
sectoral dependence, as provided in paragraph 71.3 of Article 71 of the General Law
National Budget System.

It should be noted that the role of the General Office of Planning and Budget is to
develop the regulatory framework for the three levels of government in management
budget, stating in its budgetary guidelines strategic objectives,
in turn are articulated the incentive program and management modernization, which will
binding in monitoring the Institutional Operational Plan (POI); its primary purpose is to
to provide a management tool bodies, and other organizational units assigned
the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, which would optimize public resources by
possible efficiency and effectiveness in achieving the objectives of the statement of the Presidency
Council of Ministers.

The procedure consists of:
A paradigm shift in the formulation, evaluation and monitoring of the axes and
strategic objectives of the Institutional Operational Plan (POI) which in turn permits
reprogramming thereof.

The system of evaluation and monitoring of strategic plans and operational management,
will count as a management tool the dashboard or scorecard
used by various public institutions in Chile, Spain, USA, among others.

Pag. 38/38
