THE GREAT TRANSFORMATION

GOVERNMENT PLAN
2011-2016

December 2010

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

2

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

THE GREAT TRANSFORMATION
GOVERNMENT PLAN 2011-2016

CONTENTS

Presentation
chapter 1
Nationalist TO CRITICISM neoliberal development model and sense
THE GREAT TRANSFORMATION
eleven. WHAT SITUATION departed: ABSENCE OF NATION-STATE AND FORMAL DEMOCRACY
1.2. The nationalist CRITICAL the neoliberal economic model
1.3. NATIONALISM AND THE MEANING OF THE GREAT TRANSFORMATION COUNTRY
Chapter 2
BUILDING A NATION AND STATE PLURICULTURAL
21. COLONIAL HERITAGE OF THE CURRENT STATE AND PREDATORY NEOLIBERAL
2.2. A new democratic, multicultural and decentralized REPUBLIC
2. 3. THE SOCIAL CONTRACT TO TRANSFORM THE STATE AND TO BUILD A NATION
ALL
2.4. DECENTRALIZATION TO GIVE AN EFFECTIVE POWER REGIONS AND CITIES
2.5. REFORM OF PUBLIC AUTHORITIES
2.6. National crusade against corruption and moralize politics
2.7. ASSERT HUMAN RIGHTS POLICY AGAINST VIOLENCE
2.8. REFORM OF DEFENSE AND NATIONAL SECURITY
2.9. MEDIA FOR DEMOCRACY CITIZEN
Chapter 3
BUILD A NEW MODEL OF DEVELOPMENT: THE NATIONAL ECONOMY
MARKET
3.1. LONG-TERM OBJECTIVES AND DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY
3.1.1 LONG-TERM GOAL
3.1.2 DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY: BUILDING A NATIONAL ECONOMY
MARKET
3.2. Policies for macroeconomic stability
3.2.1. MONETARY AND EXCHANGE
3.2.2. POLICY accumulation of international reserves
3.2.3. FISCAL POLICY AND TAX EXPENSE
3.2.4. Reprofiling EXTERNAL PUBLIC DEBT
3.2.5. BUDGET AND QUALITY OF PUBLIC SPENDING
3.2.6. TAX REFORM

3

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

3.3. INTERNAL MARKET DEVELOPMENT FOR THE INTEGRATION OF NATION
3.3.1. INTERNAL MARKET EXPAND to industrialize the country
3.3.2. GROWTH OF DOMESTIC MARKETS
3.3.3. UNLOCK THE RESTRICTION OF INTERNAL MARKET, THAT IS, THE SMALL SIZE
LITTLE DIVERSITY AND NATIONAL MARKET FOR DOMESTIC INVESTMENT
3.3.4. UNLOCK THE RESTRICTION OF FINANCING FOR LOCAL CURRENCY
NATIONAL INVESTMENT
3.3.5. Release the restriction on human capital and technology
Chapter 4
STRATEGIC AXES OF NEW MODEL OF DEVELOPMENT
4.1. Nationalization of the strategic activities
4.2. INFRASTRUCTURE FOR THE CREATION OF INTERNAL MARKET
4.3. CAPITAL MARKET DEVELOPMENT AND CREDIT DEMOCRATIZATION
4.4. LABOUR MARKET, LABOUR RIGHTS, EMPLOYMENT AND INCOME
4. 5. OPERATING POLICIES AND REGULATION OF MARKETS AND REGULATION
ENVIRONMENT-ENVIRONMENTAL
4.6. SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION
Chapter 5
ADDITIONAL DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY FOR SECTOR POLICIES
5.1. THE TRANSFORMATION OF THE AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION
5.2. THE TRANSFORMATION OF INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION
5.3. MINING SECTOR
5.4. FISHING SECTOR
5.5. TOURISM
Chapter 6
HORIZONTAL POLICY DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY
6.1. CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENVIRONMENTAL POLICIES
6.2. CITIES, HEALTHY ENVIRONMENTS AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT
6.3. Policies to reduce informality and heterogeneity PRODUCTION
6.4. SMEs IN THE NEW BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY
6.5. Renegotiate FREE TRADE AGREEMENTS
Chapter 7
SOCIAL POLICY, HUMAN RIGHTS, PUBLIC SAFETY AND SOCIAL PEACE
7.1. SOCIAL POLICIES TO ASSERT RIGHTS
7.2. FOR FUNDAMENTAL RIGHTS
7.3. FOR EQUITY AND SOCIAL INCLUSION
7.4. HUMAN RIGHTS AND SOCIAL PEACE SAFE LIFE
Chapter 8
Andean and Latin American sovereign insertion INTEGRATION AND THE
INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY

4

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

Presentation

The results of municipal and regional elections on October 3 last show
growing popular sentiment, at national level, for change of the current state of affairs in
the country. Weeks before the election process, a known pollster realized that
a majority percentage of the population, about 80% did not agree with the model
neoliberal economic. This model is accompanied by a blatant inequality in the distribution
income, so the frustration of not seeing Peruvians benefit directly from
fruits of economic growth. The road to the Great Transformation is open. Its clearing
It began in 2006 with the nationalist proposal of an economic, social and political transformation
the country with justice, freedom and democracy.
This feeling of change comes amid political changes in movements
independent regional and national levels are imposed on the traditional parties. The
ideologies and programs of these parties are no longer in tune with the demands of mode change
grow and generate wealth imposed by neoliberalism in the past two decades. There is one
Crisis parties and the nature of the mutations is still unpredictable; will occur in the middle or
as part of the great transformation, ie the construction of a nation, a
inclusive political community, with justice, freedom and democracy.
This new feeling, renovated just two years after the financial and economic crisis
Globally, beyond our borders. The crisis, whose epicenter was in the United States,
He has challenged the international level, the ideology of self-regulating market, without control
the State. This neoliberal model imposed on the world with the election of Margaret
Thatcher in 1979 and Ronald Reagan in 1980. With these governments were promoted and applied
policies of deregulation of financial markets, privatization, weakening the
institutions of social protection and labor organizations, market flexibility
work, reducing the size of government and taxes on high-income groups, of
Opening trade and capital, and abandonment of the goal of full employment. The result was
increasing economic and social inequality.
Thirty years of neoliberalism in the United States meant a growing generation
disconnect between the growth rate of real wages and the rate of growth
productivity. He thus increased income inequality today to look to exhibiting the
Third World countries because the levels reached in the twenties and thirties of the century
last. But the crisis is not just the United States, is international and not yet completed. The

5

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

vulnerability of the global economy continues due not only to volatile capital flows but
mainly fiscal and monetary policies to stimulate growth and combat
mass unemployment are not enough. The central banks of major countries
industrialized countries have lowered their interest rates in the short term to near zero and no longer
lean toward greater fiscal spending injections because they involve higher debt. These
countries are now turning to exchange and trade policies, knowing that this option leads
a scenario of conflict; It is the option to earn impoverished neighbor.
The political consequence of this crisis is, on the one hand, the conflict between powers, revealing the
emergence of multi-polarity and, thus destabilizing the dominance
US; and, secondly, a return to balanced, active state role on the economy,
as a result of the crisis of neoliberal unique thought. Countries like ours also viewed
affected its growth pattern, now based on the flexibility of the labor market, the
trade liberalization, free trade agreements and export-led. It is the
ineffectiveness of a model that the Garcia government summarized in foreign investment without conditions,
exports competitive with low wages, in primary exports and a State
sell, rent concessions and "hills and land in the country to put in value or buyers
Foreign investors' and excludes peasant communities and native populations
mountains and forests of the country.
The pressure to grow based on the expansion of demand from the rest of the world, and has
since competing developing countries to dismantle regulatory standards, has
exposed, in our country, the vulnerability of the economy to changes in global demand and
international capital flows. Therefore, the current global crisis has mortally wounded
Peruvian neoliberal model. It has revealed the limits of this growth pattern that dispensed
the internal market and relied more on external factors: favorable exchange rates,
increasing global demand and foreign investment, mainly to exploit
natural resources. With the prolonged recession in the international economy there will be continuity
break but this growth pattern, it can not sustain itself in the long term, not
Reactive or streamlines internal effective demand because it creates jobs and decent incomes, not
eliminating social exclusion and does not articulate or expanding domestic markets. This has to change.
It is the time of development based on the expansion and creation of internal markets. Trade
It must serve the overall national development, and domestic markets should be the basis for
development of international competitive advantage.
The primary export model holds that "all progress is due to foreign capital," thereby
historically puts us in the late nineteenth century when our countries joined
the globalized world of the time as enclaves or exporting commodities colonies.
It is indeed a neo-colonial model that dispenses with the integration into and subordinated us
transnational capital. That is why it is contrary to the interests of the majority: privatizes
regulatory functions of the State, auction communal lands, reduce corporate taxes
mining and affects labor rights of workers. Neoliberal governments of Fujimori,
Toledo and Garcia, not properly increased spending on health and education, lowered wages
and real wages, and created a way to grow that does not create jobs and decent incomes, and
that excludes the vast majority of people in the mountains and forests of the country.
Transform this state of affairs is a task that involves us all who believe in the
need to complete the construction of the Peruvian nation, with a strategy of modernization and
development rooted in the expansion of domestic markets and social and cultural inclusion,
with justice, freedom and democracy. This is our proposal from the Great Transformation.
For us, nationalism is a democratic alternative to the current neoliberal modernization
exclusive and denationalizing. It is, therefore, a political program for a radical change

6

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

neoliberal model that emphasizes social inequality, plunders natural resources violates the
legality and democracy, and does not generate development. We are committed to complete the construction
the Democratic Nation State, welfare and a decent life for all Peruvians. For
We propose this plan based government whose program includes:



Fighting corruption as a method of government and transform the way of doing politics
restoring to the character as an instrument of justice. We affirm that the conduct giving rise to
respect; therefore, the right to exercise political public affairs is based on making and
have merit; It is the only title to exercise power and authority. Therefore, the acts of
corruption will be severely punished because, besides violating the law, affect
life itself, they represent less bread for every Peruvian, a school without teachers, or
a health post without medicine. In forging the common good we find shared solutions
with stocks. We will promote dialogue and not repression. The authority and laws
imposed against the enemies of democracy: terrorism, drug trafficking and corruption.
The police, with the help of organized population, ensure public safety and
It efficiently combat gang violence and crime across the country.



Practicing a republican form of government, with explicit evaluation mechanisms and
constitutional control of the rulers. Democracy must ensure separation of powers,
and the full enjoyment of civil, social, political and human rights. Is required
implement a system of democratic election, the vitality of social organizations
and participatory form of governance subject to the Constitution, which penalizes representatives
unconstitutional governments and establish mechanisms for evaluation of reports
Presidential strict accordance with constitutional norms.



Transforming the State with a new Constitution to make decentralized and
participatory; promoter of social development and universal social rights; regulator
the market economy; promoting democratic institutions and management
decentralized government based on cross regions and defender of sovereignty
national. This is the tool to build a nation for all, a community of
citizens with equal rights and obligations. That is, we will develop our identity
national with respect for ethnic and cultural diversity, and foster intercultural and
plurality.



Forge a new development model based on the construction of an economy
National open to the world market, that links the coast, highlands and Amazonian country,
increase local and regional internal markets, with decent work and domestic companies
competitive, and thus end the productive segmentation and economic discrimination and
social life. This is the basis to integrate into the world. With the national market economy
It will add value to raw materials; ie industrialize their production and
will enhance the medium, small and micro enterprises. It encourages competition against
monopoly and prevent a return to large estates. Foreign investments respect
core labor standards, transferring technologies that protect the environment and
fairly taxed are welcome.



Develop, based on this strategy, the creative impulse of the Peruvian people, which
all these years has shown great democratic spirit of entrepreneurship, of
industriousness and seeking justice and equality. The national economy should be of service
women and men and the country. A new policy, new and better parties are required
political and greater democratic participation of the people. It must deepen policy
respect for social, economic, environmental rights, and in particular human rights.
It emerge the multicultural nation, which exceed the discrimination and exclusion. Citizenship,
movements
social,
the
forces
patriotic,
nationalists,
from
left
Y

7

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

progressives, we demand a transformation, to give effect to the dreams of a homeland
sovereign, with liberty and justice.



Recover our natural resources such as water and land, forests and
biodiversity, gas and minerals to contribute to the elimination of poverty and
inequality affecting millions of Peruvians. Its exploitation, usually used by
foreign economic minorities, can not continue. Specifically in the gas issue, we
committed to implement a policy of energy sovereignty where we return the
control gas business decisions Petroperu, repotenciarlo and initiate change
energy matrix and industrialization of this resource.



Establish quality free and universal education and health systems perspective
a universal social security, which have access to all Peruvians without
any income or social status discrimination. We affirm the universal rights of
people. We recognize the rights of indigenous peoples, in our conviction and
will to build a more inclusive, just and democratic country. We maintain that the only
guarantee integral progress of our society is the education of our children and
generations to come, so we will start an educational revolution that forms citizens
full, in proper relationship of students, teachers, parents and the community. Us
committed to substantially reduce poverty and inequality, malnutrition and
endemic diseases, illiteracy and all forms of exclusion and discrimination. The
social programs will be promoted with the citizenry in shaping a better quality of life and
work, banishing patronage and other forms of corruption. We affirm rights in the
gender equality, freedom of expression, the identity of the people, respect for the body,
recognition of cultural diversity, access to the Internet and the information society.



Improve the country's integration into the international community and promote the process of
Latin American integration, support the Andean Community, Mercosur and Unasur.
Will promote trade agreements that favor industrialization and development of agriculture and
agribusiness. Trade policy must be consistent with the policy of industrialization.
To do this, we will review all trade agreements to oppose the exercise of our
sovereign will. In this perspective pugnaremos by a globalization of solidarity to support the
exercise of human rights and good use of the planet's resources. We affirm the role
protagonist of Peru in South American integration, to enhance their quality of link with the Asia-Pacific and its contributions as the cradle of Andean civilization.

This is the historical task of a vast social movement, the patriotic forces, nationalists,
left and progressive, a multicultural, civilized and democratic movement, whose project
National claims the benefit of the excluded majorities of fundamental freedoms
life, access to culture, food, quality education, health and
justice.
Nationalists call on this broad unity to make our natural resources and
our productive forces at the service of our coastal towns, Andean and Amazonian,
in order to complete the construction of the nation on the path of development and democracy. Not us
mistake, the political dispute in Peru today is not between Democrats and the forces of change
they are today motejadas of antisistemas. He is among those who used to defend democracy
interests of big national and transnational capital, and those who believe in democracy
Republican with economic, social and political development, which will benefit all Peruvians. It is the
dispute between those who defend the shameful past and vying for the birth of a
new nation, a political community of free and equal citizens, with a State
independent and sovereign, respectful of human rights.

8

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

We are part of a great movement of change against exclusive neoliberalism runs today
Latin America, with its nuances and problems. And we want to be builders of the house
American, to strengthen the beautiful Andean community, to defend the space and environment
Amazon environment and closer to our brothers in the Southern Cone.

Felix Jimenez
Responsible Coordinator
Plan of the Commission of the Nationalist Party Government
Citizens for Change

9

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

chapter 1

GANA PERU

Nationalist criticism
the neoliberal model and
Great meaning
Transformation

eleven.

WHAT SITUATION departed: ABSENCE OF NATION-STATE AND DEMOCRACY
FORMAL



The Peruvian State does not belong or is in the service of all Peruvians. The solution, at
Therefore, it is not less government, as outlined in neoliberalism, but rather a new
Been serving the majority of Peruvians.

The state does not reach all, is exclusive. After nearly twenty years of policies
neoliberal, there are two great results: first, the majority of Peruvians lack a
State to represent them and include them, and secondly, the so-called reform, as mentioned
Fujimori and during the past decade, he has focused almost exclusively on
circuits by extending the interests of big business and a small group of
individuals who today runs the country. The islands of efficiency and modernity have only served to
a privileged minority continue enriching transnational. After two decades is
clear that the main interest was not in a radical change of the Peruvian state; namely,
to make it more representative, inclusive and fair, but rather to put it to privatize
service of the great economic, foreign and national groups, and corruption.
No basic services for a significant part of the population. There is no reform
tax that allows the state to have more resources and better and more evenly distribute the
wealth that all Peruvians produce. We have a poor and inefficient state, unable to
meet social demands and expand and strengthen the rights of Peruvians, who failed
tap, then as now, periods of economic boom. The State has not reached
the majority of the country. The main state sectors in contact with most of the
population have not undergone any major reform and change. There have cases
in sectors such as health, education and transport; or the judiciary, which do not provide
services for all our people, and those who give are not quality. Majorities
nationals have no good education, justice or public safety, or rights. Do not
We have, therefore, not a modern state that promotes economic development, and a state
democratic.

10

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

Public spaces are precarious. While the government from occurring in the
practice, disinvestment and the reduction of spaces and public services, are
create markets for these services that are exclusive for the prices charged and the
content they transmit, and benefiting privileged groups. So health and education
progressively privatized to become lucrative businesses that exclude the majority
from the country. The public space, instead of being a space of social cohesion and meeting
all Peruvians, has gone on to become the real ghetto part of the majority
poor of this country, which is reinforced by social policies that only seek to "focus" the aid
the neediest social rather than promoting further the universality of rights
political, economic and social.
The state is not national. The State has ceased to be national, ie, for all Peruvians,
and thus opened the doors for progressive denationalization is deepened by a
globalization process that, in the absence of a nation-state, only benefits transnational
and big business. It also maintains its centralist character and its old defects, such as
corruption, bureaucracy and inefficiency. The State has withdrawn as promoter
development, regulator of the economy and defender of civil rights, to become one
instrument of a few minority groups who see their transnationalization alone
development path.
The powers of the state are in crisis. Branches of government, executive, judicial and
Legislative live a deep crisis that manifests itself not only in an increasing loss
legitimacy but also a greater disregard for the lives of the people
Indians and natives of the poorest and most marginalized in the country. The current president believes that govern
is insulting, repress just social protest and serve the economic "lobbies". Most of the
Peruvians do not have access to justice and when it comes, you do poorly and late. Meanwhile he
Congress has become, in practice, in an unrepresentative power, divorced from the
regions dominated by opportunism and defectors, and unable to define what concert
they should be national priorities; ie the demands that today raise their provinces
Upcountry, the various social sectors and the majority of citizens.
The State is not a forum for conflict resolution. The political violence of the past
decades has shown us how the absence of a nation-state, democratic and modern, continues
remains an issue to build a nation for all and achieving economic development. He
internal armed conflict, as the Commission of Truth and Reconciliation says, was an expression of
fractures that could not be closed in over 180 years of republican life. It is
consequence of the indolence of our state and the elites who care little or no
future of his countrymen, and rather they seek to hide the profound inequalities,
privileges of a minority and the relations of domination that exist so far. Therefore, one of
the claims of the majority is the radical transformation to close the old and new
fractures, strengthen and expand democracy, develop the country and to end the abuse and
corruption that prevail today. Ie forge the nation. The State must cease to be the property of
few and move to serve all Peruvians equal, it should no longer be the
service small, but powerful economic groups, to promote not only the development
economic development of the country but also its infrastructure.
In that sense, it is necessary to build a nation with a democratic state of law,
efficient and decentralized, representing all Peruvians, to defend our heritage,
promote cultural integration, protect the environment and natural resources; while foster
national development and Latin American integration.

eleven

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016



GANA PERU

The proposal under State by neoliberalism and its exclusive model prevents
the integration of the country and perpetuates the unfinished character of the nation.

No political community. With the independence of Peru and during the period of the Republic,
It was inherited an area but not a nation built for all, that is, a community
regionalised policy, or a "civic community of citizens with equal rights and obligations
living in a given territory. " In all those years, the country went back into space
Andean and its inhabitants. Add to this the absence of an indigenous elite, which was decimated added
after the Tupac Amaru rebellion in the eighteenth century. Thus, indigenous peoples, that is, the
indigenous and native peoples who inhabited these lands were excluded when imagine
nation and founded the State. This state is and was exclusionary and, based on the Creole elite and the
exclusion of the majority native population was permanently confronted her instead of
her as mainstay. It was weak and internally repressive as was obsequious with
foreign powers, who provided the support he lacked internally. Therefore the
Peru remains until now a nation in formation. Complete its construction, even in
Transnationlity these times, is the main task of all Peruvians.
Most people have no rights, there is no equality. Peru is built
on the basis of profound disagreements, a social abyss and empirical prevented State
social integration and a peaceful and democratic coexistence of all Peruvians. The result was
the non-recognition of the other as different, and acceptance of inequality as a situation
"Natural" as well as the creation of a society divided between citizens first
and second category where, finally, the main links between the elite and most
Peruvians were marginalization, exclusion, racism and profound inequality that prevented
that nation and democracy are merged, and became the second in a formal exercise.
The culture is elite and not national. The traditions and culture of the popular classes,
particular ethnic groups living in the Andean region, became a simple
Postal tourists. Just as our exalted Inca past he despised the Indian present.
Therefore, our culture was neither national nor popular, less diverse, and led to a misunderstanding
cosmopolitanism culture stripped of all national sense. The elites, looking first
Europe and then the US as mode and lifestyle, they not considered to most Peruvians
as their compatriots. What made our ancestral traditions and customs in a rite
folk and not a national popular culture.
Modernization not joined the country. The modernization, to have a mark or
seal and often authoritarian conservative, did not resolve these problems. The nation, according to
experiences of other countries of the north, is a modern phenomenon linked to industrial progress and
the development of the State is embodied in a collective imagination of belonging to a territory and
a culture. In Peru, industrialization was a process of modernization that no deliberate
develop domestic markets sought to expand integrating the economies of other
territories to expand markets for their products. The modern economy was well
unrelated to demographics and geography, and subordinate, as was our culture, a
external dynamics that did not take into account the interests of the majority. Industrialization
protectionist also helped create citizenship because not joined the country.
The current focus of development only emphasizes foreign markets. The
globalization economic policies skewed towards foreign markets, feuding our
small domestic markets to the interests of transnational power groups, precisely
when the economic performance of developed industrial countries more dependent on their
exports. In the neoliberal version of the modernization of the productive apparatus, he opted for the
liberalization of foreign trade and for export growth, neglecting development
rooted in the expansion of domestic markets and in the use of our own

12

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

ancient and modern capabilities. Neoliberalism, by reducing the authority of the state and its
inclusiveness, further weakened the development of territorialized political community, the
nation, by excluding provincial development entire populations of the coast, mountains and jungle
country.

There emergence of social movements. Advances in social movements, in particular
regional, indigenous and natives, due to the current crisis of neoliberalism, have
again on the political agenda of our country the task of a new state capable of expressing and
represent all Peruvians, especially the poor and excluded, thus welding
nation, democracy, culture and national development. And that is to build nation must integrate
economics to geography and demographics of the country, as well as our traditions with
new culture that our people make every day. Modern connection with the economy
demography and geography of the country and the development of a national-popular culture allow us to give
a territorial expression to a process of social and cultural integration which became a
political community of free and equal citizens in rights and opportunities. Maintaining
our independence and our national identity we insert ourselves into the world.
Our country's main cultural richness diversity. Therefore, we are obliged
to create a culture that, based on respect to diversity and our ethnic and cultural diversity,
be able, at the same time be inclusive and modern, to meet the challenges of the process
globalization and exploit its advantages and opportunities. That is, we are obliged to
establish and build a new nation.



After several decades of social and political struggles, Peruvians have conquered
more democracy. And while we are, at present, able to choose
periodically to our authorities and leaders, our democracy remains
precarious and incomplete.

No respect for citizens' rights. Political power throughout our history has
been curtailed by the powers and the large economic groups, it has served elites
social and economic without respect for citizens' rights, separation of powers, order
constitutional, democratic republic as required. Decades of militarism and civil governments
barely reformists have undermined the country's democratic development and consolidation of
an egalitarian society of a civic culture as the foundation of peaceful coexistence.
Is this undemocratic exercise of power that has prevented the development of citizens,
free men and women in our country and the emergence of a democratic and national State
representative.
Democracy is weak and incomplete. Our democracy is precarious also because it is
powers permanently harassed by both national and international, that no
choose, no one controls and monitors such as the case of the military, business associations,
the mass media, churches and some international organizations, who
through non-institutional channels and mechanisms exert levels of public and political advocacy,
set the political agenda, they organize public opinion and reach levels of participation
privileged in decision-making and exercise of power.
There is a deep crisis of political institutions. We live in a severe crisis
political representation, especially since the 90s, as a result of insanity
hiker, the failure of the first Aprista government and the native left, and the implementation of
authoritarian and corrupt government of Alberto Fujimori. And while political parties are
fundamental instruments to ensure the representation of different social sectors and
the fulfillment of the objectives of democracy, its deep crisis and the insufficient development of the

13

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

new regional political projects have not allowed an effective political representation
popular majorities and consolidation of democracy. The old man did not want to die and blocks
the emergence of the new.

The exercise of political power is elitist and centralist. The neoliberal economic model and the
Persistence of authoritarian values ​​and practices of the elites in the national political system have
offered few opportunities and mechanisms for participation by various sectors of the population,
which has caused poverty and social exclusion mainly in rural areas, ie the
inequality and exclusion have increased and deepened despite sustained
economic growth.
Democracy today is not based on the quality of life and public safety. Weak
political will of governments to foster strategic lines of social development as
education, health, employment and food security is precarious quality of life
Most Peruvians and development have been excluded. Far from guaranteeing guidance
priority of the national budget in these areas, as an effective opportunity to
redistribution of the benefits of growth and development, has chosen programs
social emergency of low quality and exclusive use for the poor. It is then
palliative that do not solve the serious effects of inequality and exclusion but rather the
perpetuate and aggravate.
The current democracy is unable to resolve social conflicts. Our democracy
It has not developed a transparent, effective and fair, inclusive institutions capable of solving
social conflicts and prevent the deployment of social and political violence. Persistence and
preeminence often authoritarian ways of exercising power and the deepening and
massification of inequality and exclusion have also generated growing expressions
conflict and social and political violence. In other words, violence is merely the expression of character
exclusionary and fragile democratic system. The terms of public safety and security
local and national are constantly challenged. The State, lacking a comprehensive strategy
to transform the structural and institutional factors that favored the development of
conflicts and expressions of political and social violence, not only generates a weak democracy and a
lack of authority but also a vicious circle that reproduces the social and political violence
country lacking democratic institutions.

14

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

1.2

The nationalist CRITICAL the neoliberal economic model



The Washington Consensus policies liberalized trade and markets
financial, privatized state enterprises, more flexible labor market, which
He deteriorated job security and wages, and reduced the regulatory role of the state.

The neoliberal model looks outside and affects domestic markets. The regime
neoliberal promoted competition among developing countries to attract foreign capital
by dismantling the regulatory and institutional standards, the effect was
deteriorating living conditions of the population and increase inequality and poverty. Great
part of public workers were "unemployed" by privatization, and pressure
globalization prevented the growth of wages on workers. Also, the
reducing public spending affected the quality of education and, therefore, the qualification and
teacher training. The result has been to place the power in foreign markets
demand generation and revenue to sustain growth.
The neoliberal model is based on the cheap cholo. The neoliberal regime in the context of
deregulated labor market, also promoted an export-led growth,
leaving aside the development rooted in the growth of domestic markets. This style of
growth not only has weak links with the rest of the economy but exacerbates
disconnection of modern economics to geography and demographics of the country. For these reasons,
It has a proclivity to the crisis and not generate sustained economic growth. While pressure
globalization prevents the growth of salaries for private employees, much
public workers were "unemployed" by privatization. Likewise, the reduction
public spending affected the quality of education and, therefore, qualification and training
Workers.
The neoliberal model generates no joints within the country. Under this scheme does not
You can build a national market economy that connect to the excluded and forgotten villages
coast, mountains and jungle, with the participation of all with equal rights and duties. Namely,
building material and economic foundation for the development of the nation, without racism and
social inequality that separate us, and with political stability, based on honesty and rules
efficiency in the exercise of public functions.



From its origins, the dream of the countries of the region has been the creation of a
Latin American homeland. This dream, which we can not and should resign, has returned to
frustrated with neoliberalism.

The neoliberal model replaced by more trade integration. The policies
They derived from the Washington Consensus coincided with internal economic sectors
-interest of transnational corporations. These sectors never understood the
regional integration and integration of peoples and a mechanism to achieve our
industrial development and better able to negotiate with developed countries and
transnational corporations, to insert ourselves supreme in the globalized world. Since
the perspective of those interests, was thought to simply increase international trade
and open our markets. In this context, integration resulted in an insert (not we have
benefited) to markets and industrialized countries like the US, as a world market
dominated by monopolies and transnational, rather than, first, a partnership with
our neighbors and then with the other countries of the region and the world. The neoliberal proposal,
in practice, it prevented the creation of a regional bloc by not considering the spaces
regional, especially the Andean, domestic markets are extended to us and true

fifteen

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

launching pads for our manufactured products compete better
conditions in the world market. In reality, the neoliberal integration and demonstrate the
anti-national character of our elites, brought more poverty, inequality and destruction of our
environment by using the labor market, ie the cheap cholo, as the element
fundamental to the achievement of an alleged international competitiveness together with the subordination
the environmental issue of free trade.

Open regionalism is functional to the neoliberal model. Instead of the integrated vision
Andean and South American nation's commercial vision of integration was imposed. Regionalism
Open became functional to the neoliberal reforms. Development policies were set aside
(Design of common economic policies at the level of the region or CAN, or the possibilities of
productive coordination between countries), aimed at social, political and environmental integration,
sovereign way of participating in globalization.
Trade agreements made fashionable by neoliberalism are asymmetric. The
Free Trade Agreements (FTA), indiscriminate trade liberalization, the unilateral reduction
tariffs and leadership of exports on economic growth show subordination
transnational. They became key parts of a progressive denationalization
our economy. The US-Peru trade agreement is not a free trade agreement, but a
asymmetric agreement between a developed country and large, which subsidizes its products, and a country little
developed and small. If trade liberalization puts us at a disadvantage, the FTA
US deepens benefit. Among his most questionable aspects are agreements
intellectual property, traditional knowledge, culture, education and health, treatment
preferential foreign investment, acceptance of subsidies to agricultural production
US and negative to the imposition of countervailing duties by Peru.
The current openness to the world is dependent and subordinate. The alleged interest
Peruvians integration-especially governments, that of Alan Garcia, who has buried
theses definitely Haya about the great motherland was contradicted latinoamericana-
the subordination of our foreign to US policy, open to opposition
processes of change that now live in Latin America and especially in the Andean region. To the
accepting and promoting bilateral agreements, the Aprista government has chosen the worst way
negotiation, because the best is in multilateral fora. Our openness to the world can not be
a means of accelerating a dependent and subordinate to the current globalization process insertion
less to sabotage, as is done today, the processes of regional and subregional integration, or
creation of bodies such as UNASUR, or allow the development of organized crime, as
drug trafficking and other illicit activities, but rather to promote a new type of neighborhood,
first with the Andean and Latin American countries and then with the rest of the world on the basis of
mutual respect, defend our independence and sovereignty, non-interference in the affairs
internal, ideological and political pluralism, multilateralism and the development of an active policy
abroad to increase our capacity for international negotiation. Foreign policy and
integration must be key levers to strengthen democracy, to achieve our
national development and create a true community of nations and peoples and Andean
Latin American.
All this has to change.

16

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016
1.3

GANA PERU

NATIONALISM AND THE MEANING OF THE GREAT TRANSFORMATION COUNTRY

1.3.1. More about the diagnosis: inequality and disarticulation


Economic inequality and social dislocation and prevent the country become a
or political nation of free citizens with equal rights and community.
to)

Economics, geography and demographics of the country are disconnected or
disjointed.

24.7% of Peruvians live in rural areas, and in these areas the poor exceeds
65%, while the extremely poor accounted for 40.6%.
11.6% of the geographic area of ​​the country corresponds to the coast, the mountains 28.1% and 60.3% to
jungle. The coast accounts for 52% of the population (29% in the capital, Lima, and 23% in
the rest of the coast), 35% live in the highlands and 13% in the jungle.
About 46% of GDP is generated in the department of Lima. In Arequipa, La Libertad, Piura,
Ancash and Ica 20% occurs.
53% of manufacturing output, 47% of the production of government services,
45.5% of the output of the construction industry and 67% of the production of other
services are concentrated in the department of Lima.
The production system is technologically heterogeneous and disjointed. Mining is not
articulated transformation activities and those not articulate with agriculture. He
primary export model has led to a process of service economy. Close
72% of the economically active population is in the tertiary or service activities and these activities
generate 61% of GDP.
b)

The inequality of income and access to basic social services is the other side of
the disruption or disconnection:

Approximately 77% of the EAP works in companies 1-10 workers, where income
Monthly average no more than 650 suns. The primary export model reproduces the
informality and low productivity in this broad sector of small companies.
The per capita annual income (as ENAHO 2007) in rural areas is US $ 977, while
Lima is US $ 3.258 and other urban areas is US $ 2.295. In the case of rural saw this
income amounts to only US $ 815. The total income in rural areas equivalent to half the
value of total household income nationwide.
All, both poor and non-poor, rural households have a low level of access to
public and private services, and over 60% is dedicated to agricultural activities.
Just over 30% of households in the country have no access to public water network: 65% in
Loreto, Ucayali 65.7% and 51.5% in Puno.
30.1% of Peruvian households have no access to electricity: 68.1% in Cajamarca, the
61.3% in Huanuco and 56% in Amazonas.

17

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

About 54% of the population has no access to drainage and 63.4% of the population has all
unsatisfied basic needs (water, sewer and electricity).
Finally, the functional distribution of income has become more uneven. In 1991, the
salaries accounted for 30.1% of national income and corresponded to 52.7%
operating surplus (which are primarily net earnings of depreciation). In the year
2007 the share of wages dropped to 21.9% and the operating surplus rose
to 61.9%.
1.3.2. The meaning of nationalism


Inequality and economic and social disruption make it unfeasible as the country's future
nation. It is necessary, therefore, to radically change this situation to generate equality
opportunities and access to justice, education, health and basic services.

The domain transnational neoliberal won a heterogeneous society, with inequality
social, economic and political, and where the state fails to important demographic areas and
geographical. The state has been taken by the economic power and unresponsive to the needs of
national development. The neoliberal model reproduces inequality and disarticulation
underdevelopment.
The neoliberal model, following the logic of globalization, emphasizes markets
external. This undemocratic version of the modernization of the productive apparatus opted for
liberalization of foreign trade and for export growth, and dropped the development
rooted in the expansion of domestic markets and the multiplication of jobs and
income. Neoliberalism undermined the sovereignty and inclusiveness of State, thereby
which further weakened the progress of the regionalised political community by excluding populations
provincial entire coast, highlands and jungle region.


Nationalism is a backlash against this exclusive program modernization. They
conceived, then, as a political program to build a nation-state. For the
Therefore, it is a radical change proposed a model that plunders resources
natural, which violates the law and democracy, and does not generate development.

As a political program, nationalism means not only the process of building a
national identity -so that the nation-state becomes the space of the validity of the
democracy and citizens' rights - but also the conquest of sovereignty (condition and
sustaining national identity and dignity) to value the culture, history and management
independent of politics and the market economy. This has to do with the rational use and
sovereign territory and its resources to accomplish the goal of national development.
1.3.3.

Proposals for the Great Transformation of the country

to.

We propose to moralize politics and fight corruption.

Situation
Corruption has become part of the political system and government. The people legitimizes their
rulers by voting, but the elected govern in the interests of minorities
economic that they have not been elected by popular vote. With this corrupt exercise of the function
playback government ensures their interests and perpetuate inequality and

18

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

exclusion. The government proposed the optional vote is an example of this practice
corrupt.

Low taxes and free market economic power groups is part of the ideology of
Current political and government system. Groups to evade their tax liability
from the state, and the state shirks its responsibility to provide quality basic services
the majority of the population (education, health, electricity, water and drainage).
Policy actions
Transform the mode of politics implementing justice and "respect for each
one law for all ". We will restore the political character of instrument of justice.
We will of political action rather than social service advantage. Always to appeal
what unites us as Peruvians to develop and enrich it. And what unites us must be based
the notion of the common good, that is, in the conviction that the interests of a Peruvian
They are linked to the interests of others. Convert the notion of the common good on a
national commitment, it will be easier to distribute among all Peruvians the fruits of
growth and prosperity.
Moralizing political corruption block it. A national crusade to head
punish the corrupt officials who steal, to restore national self-esteem. The
behavior of politicians, public officials and State contractors should be guided
for the purpose of welfare of all. The fight against corruption must be part of a social contract
to build peace in the nation.

19
b.

We propose to build nation (political community) and a new State
unitary and supreme authority of all the people

Situation
The state does not reach all, it is exclusionary and prevents build nation. Most Peruvians lacking
of a State to represent them and include them. No basic social services for part
important population. The state is unable to meet the demands of health, education,
transport, justice and security; Additional services provided are not of quality.
The State is not a national or democratic, or defender of civil rights. It is no longer
for all Peruvians, is centralist, it promotes the denationalization of resources and benefits
transnational and large economic groups. It's not developmental promoter or regulator
economic and defender of citizens and human rights.
Policy actions
We build a nation for all. Build a regionalised policy community,
"Civic community of citizens with equal rights and obligations inhabiting a territory
determined '. That is develop our national identity, respect for diversity
racial and ethno-cultural, and will encourage multiculturalism and plurality.
Transform the State with a new Constitution. The State will promote development,
regulator of market economy and provider of basic social services (education, health,
social, water and drain) security policies that have universal scope. They
will restore the preferential rights of Peruvians in the management, operation and enjoyment of the
natural resources of the nation, especially its energy sources. A nation that does not control
its energy sources do not control your future. Actively promote investments in

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

infrastructure and the development of the capital market to generate a national economy
market. Finally, the equality of citizens before the law and the full exercise of freedom
Free Peruvians assumed the need and fear. Therefore, the State guarantees
satisfaction of basic needs (food, housing, sanitation, electricity, health,
education for children), indispensable for the exercise of freedom requirement. To this end
undertake a deep fiscal reform that would allow the state to have more resources
to undertake universal social programs.

Transform state institutions with guarantees and balances, clear separation of
powers and new cross regionalization covering the three regions of the country to do so
more controllable and therefore democratic, or allowing for the exercise of republican democracy.
A secular and social state of law decentralized or regionalized will be established; will be needed
the fundamentals of the full independence of the branches of government and the supervisory bodies;
renewal by thirds of the Congress will be introduced mid-term
government, removing the absolute immunity; and a system will be established
independent and universal justice.
The State will strengthen public spaces, ceasing to be owned by few to serve all
Peruvians. Health and education will no longer be lucrative that exclude
majority of the country. Under the Constitution a system of regional universities will be encouraged
with science and technology programs to promote regional industrial development, financed
with energy and mining concessions to foreign capital. Finally, it will promote a
pact between workers and companies to ultimately eradicate poverty and
underemployment, by creating job opportunities, and no assistance programs
social, for the work not only provides independence and income, but also brings peace
social, individual dignity and opportunities for personal development.
c.

We propose republican democracy practice in the exercise of the function
government.

Situation
Governments elected by the people do not respect the rights of citizens. Democracy is weak
and incomplete and there is a deep crisis of political institutions. Political power has been
curtailed by the powers and the large economic groups as national
foreigners, that no one chooses, no one controls and monitors. It governs without respect for
civil rights, separation of powers, the constitutional order, as demands
republican democracy.
There is a deep crisis of political representation. The Executive, Judiciary and Legislative
They have lost legitimacy and credibility. The president governs serving 'lobbies' economic
and repress just social protests. The Congress is a discredited power, divorced
national, regional and provincial interests, and it is dominated by opportunism and
turncoats. On the other hand, political parties require a deep renewal
become true representatives of different social sectors and guarantors of
democracy.
Democracy today is not based on the quality of life and public safety. The weak will
policy makers to foster strategic lines of social development as
education, health, employment and food security is precarious quality of life
Most Peruvians and development have been excluded.
Policy actions

20

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

We will promote the practice of a republican form of government, with explicit mechanisms
evaluation and constitutional control of the rulers. Democracy alone does not guarantee
full enjoyment of civil, social, political and human rights. It is how to choose
leaders and representatives of the people; therefore, democracy is only one process
legitimating. State will approach the poor and disjointed areas, strengthen the system
political parties and broaden participation mechanisms at local, regional and
national; remove the preferential vote and be guaranteed equal opportunities for
men and women; and we will promote the full respect and full exercise of rights
human for all Peruvians.
To make all this possible, it is required to implement the republican democracy, ie,
a system of democratic choice and a way to govern subject to the Constitution, or the
Constitution. We penalize unconstitutional governments and establish mechanisms
evaluation of presidential reports adherence to standards.

d.

We propose a new model of development based on economy
National open to the world market.

Situation
Neither the import substitution industrialization nor the neoliberal primary export model,
both as modernizing processes, integrated into the country. The construction of the nation, in the
core countries, was linked to industrial progress and development of the state. In our
country, industrialization dropped the development of domestic markets and sought to expand
integrating the economies and markets of other countries. The modern economy was well
unrelated to demographics and geography, and subordinate, as was our culture, a
external dynamics that ignores the majority. It did not help to create citizenship,
because it did not integrate the country.
The neoliberal model also looks out and neglects the development of domestic markets.
Neoliberalism promoted competition among developing countries to attract capital
abroad by dismantling the regulatory and institutional standards, which
effect was damaging the environment and living conditions of the population and increase the
inequality and poverty. Much of public workers were "unemployed" by the
privatization, and deregulation of the labor market by the pressure of globalization
It prevented the growth of wages on workers. Also, the reduction
public spending affected the quality of education and, therefore, the qualification and training
workers. With low costs and quality of labor, growth was led by the
exports, ignoring the development rooted in the growth of domestic markets.
This style of growth exacerbated the disconnection of the economy and geography
demographics of the country.
Policy actions
We forge a new development model based on the construction of an economy
national market that links the coast, the highlands and the Amazon country. This means encouraging
Internal local and regional markets, to develop a national market and
end production segmentation and economic and social discrimination in the country. This is
a growth strategy from within while out. When
develop and expand domestic markets, it is possible to increase steadily the
productivity and, therefore, strengthen the competitiveness of the economy in the markets
international. The progress of the internal market, regional areas across the country
It is a task that involves national companies in the industry, agro-industry, fishing,
mining and agriculture. A fundamental part of this task is the transformation of our materials

21

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

raw into finished products, new added value to grow our markets
internal and diversify exports.

Domestic private investment is critical to building a national market economy.
While the neoliberal model in foreign investment has a key role in the development
of a national market economy this role falls to the domestic private investment.
But this investment has a national orientation is required remove
market and restrictions facing funding. The market restriction is exceeded
investments in infrastructure (ports, warehouses, roads, railways, sanitation,
electricity, telecommunications and education), with a new approach to regionalization and
occupation of the country. These investments are necessary to connect the economy
with the geography and demography of the country. Meanwhile, restricting funding exceeds
develop the domestic capital market in soles, with a regulatory framework to facilitate the
financing of private productive investment by small and medium enterprises,
individually or in combination. Economic and social infrastructure and capital market
national currency are the two pillars of the growth of the local private investment, and its orientation
activities and economic circuits based on natural resources, contributing to the
consolidation of non-primary production, in particular the industry and export base
not traditional and long term growth.
Construction of new development model requires other policy actions.
Reconstruct the regulatory capacity of the State; build a security system
(Sovereignty) food in the country; We will promote growth with macroeconomic stability;
We will design measures to adapt to climate change and energy security; change
the energy matrix, and adopt specific policies to protect the environment
seek sensible balance between protecting our natural resources and requirements
economic modernization.

e.

We propose to improve the country's integration into the international community.

Situation
The neoliberal model replaced by more trade integration. Sectors that boosted
neoliberal policies never understood regional integration as an integration of peoples and
as a mechanism to achieve our industrial development and better conditions
negotiating with developed countries and transnational corporations, to insert ourselves
supremely in the globalized world. From the perspective of those interests, it was thought that
integration was simply increase international trade and open our markets.
The neoliberal model became the focus of foreign policy. Government bias
to the neoliberal model prevented the creation of a regional bloc, the Andean especially as
part of a strategy of expanded domestic markets for our products
Manufactured better able to compete in the world market. Instead of a vision
inclusive of the Andean and South American nation's commercial vision of integration was imposed.
Open regionalism is functional to the neoliberal model. Open regionalism became functional
neoliberal reforms. Development policies (policy design were set aside
common level of the region or the CAN or the possibilities of economic coordination
production between countries), the sovereign way of participating in globalization and policies
oriented social, political and environmental integration, the latter is subordinated to free trade.
Trade agreements are asymmetric. The Free Trade Agreements (FTA) became
key to a progressive denationalization parts of our economy. The trade agreement

22

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

Peru-US. it is not a free trade agreement, but an agreement between a country asymmetrical
developed and large, which subsidizes its products and a small underdeveloped country. If the
Trade liberalization puts us at a disadvantage, the deepening trade agreements. Between
the most questionable aspects of these treaties are agreements on property
intellectual, traditional knowledge, culture, education and health, preferential treatment to
foreign investments, acceptance of subsidies to US agricultural production and negative
the imposition of countervailing duties by Peru, etc.

Policy actions
Will promote trade agreements that favor industrialization and development of agriculture and
agribusiness. Trade policy must be consistent with the policy of industrialization. He
Foreign trade is good for the country whenever reciprocal and equitable. Restriction
External characterizes Peru and all developing economies is essential
diversify our exports. The necessary opening of Peru to the world should not be a pretext
to consolidate as a producer and exporter of unprocessed raw materials. This
requires, inter alia, the proper management of the real exchange rate to keep
stable and competitive.
We will promote fair trade. Equity and protection of the weak should not be
subordinated to commercial competitiveness as with the ECLA thesis of regionalism
Open that was functional to the neoliberal reforms. The deregulation of the labor market
there will be fundamental to achieving competitiveness and is subject element more
environmental issue of free trade. Protection of workers promote the right to
form unions, prohibition of child labor, improving environmental standards and
removal of government subsidies on exports.
From the current market view of integration back to an integrated view of markets.
Latin American integration, especially Andean integration will promote a new
type of relations between countries globally. We will promote integration among countries,
especially among the Andean countries, with policies aimed at reducing inequality, strengthening the relationship
between sectors, public and private, and to promote the development of science and technology.
We will promote a new foreign policy. The guiding principles of this new policy will
the recognition of the legitimate aspirations of other peoples, respect for self-determination
of all people, and the international consensus to address transnational threats
the environment, health and work.

2. 3

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

Chapter 2

GANA PERU

And nation-building
Multicultural state

The great transformation that involves a new national project with long term horizon
It requires that the Peruvian people exercise their constituent power. That is, it becomes a
political majority can govern and govern the country. This includes a new constitution,
more representative, participatory and transparent democracy, reform of the political system,
Public and instruments of state management powers, especially planning
strategic and decentralization of the country.
We aspire to build a pluralistic polity and democratic, decentralized republic
multicultural through integration and participation of all Peruvians transformation
social and national development. Multiculturalism and participation are the guiding principles of the
national state policy, allowing open, democratic and horizontal dialogue between
different cultures and social groups.
The transformation of the state for the construction of the nation and a democratic republic,
multicultural and decentralized must start by recognizing that:

1. Peru is a complex multicultural society: multi-ethnic in the mountains of Quechua and
2.

3.
Four.

5.

7.

Aymara and jungle. This requires a better form of integration claiming
rights.
Peru needs a new constitution that has as objectives not only cancel
imposed by the Fujimori dictatorship (to establish the economy and the neoliberal State
to wrest their rights to workers) but also recognize and award
policy of Peru's multicultural community representation to end the inheritance
colonial.
Peru needs political reform to strengthen democracy. The electoral system,
party law and the form of government must be reformed to improve
performance and quality of democracy.
Peru and democratic country requires a sovereign and independent state (with respect to
the ruling classes and foreign powers) and the service of all Peruvians. It
It required to organize on the basis of a broad democratic coalition of employers
national, the middle classes and the popular classes that give sustenance and stability.
Peru needs a tax reform that broadens the tax base, requiring
pay more to those who have more and to combat tax evasion and avoidance.
6.
The Peruvian government needs to establish and institutionalize public career
State officials and promote the development of an efficient public management to
perform quality management.
The state has to deploy public policies, especially social policies
(Education, health and safety) quality, arriving to cover the whole territory and all

24

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

8.

9.

21.

GANA PERU

social classes. The State must deploy a bureaucratic efficiency and effectiveness
legal.
The Peru requires transparency in the state structure and management policies
public, except for issues that have to do with national security. The
State institutions and policies need to be subject to the horizontal control,
Vertical and social to prevent corruption.
Peru requires the State to promote the intermediation of ethical values ​​among
the means used and the ends proposed policy.
COLONIAL HERITAGE OF THE CURRENT STATE AND PREDATORY NEOLIBERAL

The conquest and colonization marked the path you have traveled Peru and the formally independent
Republican. The economic extraversion, the income statement, the dislocation of the occupation
territorial, overexploitation of indigenous labor, exacerbated inequality,
ignorance of the Andean world and racism are the survivals of the colony. The
Several attempts to reverse that history failed. The indigenous resistance movements
Indian national, Creole national independence movements and it failed
cancel the structural features that established the colonial era. Subsequent capitalism in its
variety, substitute imports and neoliberal forms produced exporter -primario
significant changes in production systems, in the class structure, culture and
the state structure, but these changes have not interrupted the colonial heritage but have
developed within the channels opened by the colony. To cancel the surviving colonialism
It is necessary to build a pluralistic political community and a democratic republic, and decentralizing
multicultural.

25
2.1.1. THE COLONIAL HERITAGE
The transformation of the Inca Empire in the current peasant-indigenous starts with the fact
Military Conquest. This crushed the independent will of the empire to exploit
national and dynastic contradictions on which stood his fledgling unit. The colony
usufruct did nothing but military triumph of the conquerors. The dere
cho farm of
conquest and forced insertion of soci
Andean dad in the international market were
the pillars on which it was organized as a feudal-colonial society and cons
tuted,
while the main levers that im
they touched to become
-colonial feudal peasantry. Forced residence in the reductions, the establishment
of the charges, the servi ce of the mita, the existence of the divisions, the
Private ownership of land and the payment of tribute came from
Recho the farm
conquest. Under this, the Andean law was virtually abolished and so
Andean society became a society politically Opri
measure and economically
exploited. She also saw forza
It is given by the colonial oppression to enter the system
eu-European trade and the economy organized according to the needs of that
system. It was in this way seal the extroverted character of the Peruvian economy.
Defeated the Inca resistance, conquest gave way to the colonial organization. The
two companies overlapped colonial administration eco-
mico, racially and culturally
opposed to Andean society adapt to the needs of the Spanish metropolis. This took control of natural resources and indigenous productive forces without bringing progress and
development that humanity had achieved until then and introduced structures, processes and
characteristic of the feudal-mercantile society of that time Spain archaic institutions. The coexistence of two opposing worlds and mastery of the metropolis on the Andean world

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

established communicating vessels through which sucked resources and Spain
surplus of Andean society.
In short, the colonial oppression was the political channel tra
which he discoursed see the
social exploitation of the large Indian population, whose surplus and whose obedience were channeled
through the social nexus of the chiefs. The economic pillars of colonial oppression and organized
on which she rested territorial income were obtained through exploitation
feudal of the huge Indian masses and the enslavement of black Africans, and commercial interests
increased by the absolute control of the trade and transport by Contra House
tation of Seville. The heart of the colonial territorial income, despite its ups and downs, was the
metal extraction whose prevalence sos price development subordinated agricul
ture, which, however, contrary to the organization of mining in small and
medium enterprises constituted des
from its inception in large estates. The predominance
ac tivities of mining involved the economic dominance of the mountains, particularly the
Sierra Sur on the coast, by Alber gar centers colonial administration and
linkage with the mother country, could counteract that dominance. The Peruvian colonial feudalism,
whose epicenter lay in the mountains, he was thus predominantly mining and laid the foundations of
Peru as a producer of raw materials and manufactured goods importer country.
2.1.2. Independence did not end the colonial mentality
The crisis that led to the independence of America was motivated both by the problems
politicians of the metropolis generated by the Napoleonic invasion (1808) that led to the
Constitution of Cadiz, which in turn will create difficulties securing keep their colonies,
and by the political and economic demands of the Creoles (reduction of tax burdens, freedom
to trade with Europe and North America, among the most important). The cycle of wars
Independence for the pact began in 1810 and ended in 1824, long enough
colonial that had linked the interests of the monarchy with landowners and merchants
America broke down and forced its redefinition. But this conflict was very much a
Creole civil war between royalists and patriots (as the name of the time) that a war
international between states, much less a war of national liberation. More than a decade
confrontation on the battlefield show how fractured families or, as the
military incidents, changed sides even more than once.
The new republics were mostly unable to rebuild stable pacts
governance of the early years after independence. Anarchy and
civil, declared or larval, wars continued for decades. The struggles between interests
local, between powerful families that competed for power, hampered the process of occupation
the power that Spain had vacated. The delay in resolving the basic conflict
retarded recovery claiming institutional business.
On the other hand, the transformation of society in Andean peasantry so feudal-colonial
military mind culminated with the defeat of the Indian national movement and parti
larly with
the defeat of the rebellion of Tupac Amaru after which the ruling class was destroyed
Indian. Without economic-territorial base without ruling class, the movement was born
nalindígena lost all its vitality and its defeat emerged and won the national movement
Creole opening the way to the oppression of indigenous nationalities identified with
poor peasantry during the republic.
Undermined its economic-territorial base and destroyed his
vertex political leader for the defeat of Tupac Amaru, the Indian national movement was
fading away. The fourth cycle of this movement (1812-1814) expressed this peculiarity.
Came as a terminal point of the Indian national movement had already lost all his
strength and vitality, although it a provincial mestizo movement was articulated with the

26

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

Indian masses. Pumacahua defeat Angulo brothers and ended the long period
the Indian national movement. With the defeat of the Indian national movement, movement
independence lost its democratic character, its social strength and its revolutionary edge. About his
Creole defeat anemic, ambiguous, minority, elitist national movement rose and
predominantly urban.
The Creoles, majority in white, socially and politically in the aristocracy were located
Creole and the liberal middle class. Creole, rural, commercial and bureaucratic aristocracy preferred the
national security colonial revolution and was not willing to sacrifice their social dominance
by the independence struggle. His conservatism was determined more by loyalty
crown by fear of social revolution. Instead of taking strength of the national movement
Indian, Creole aristocracy shy scared against the big feudal deployment
Indian masses and retreated into their private economic interests. Something similar happened with
Liberals. Predominantly middle class, they prefer reform to revolution. They were
supporters of freedom and equality for natives in the colonial structure. Located
between the Spanish and the indigenous masses, the Liberals were not a movement firmly
independence.

2.1.3. THE LIBERAL BOURGEOIS SOCIETY WITHOUT Republicanism
Unlike North America, Peru and Latin America they did not receive the strong influence of
civic republicanism. In Peru and in Latin America we have not had political communities
Republican or civic virtue, or active citizenship, or representative government. Our
Republicanism was more a negation of a positive monarchy proposed organization
state. The ruling elites copied with slight variations institutional designs
American liberal republicanism of 1787, but they could obviously not your copy
bourgeois social structure or Republican, liberal and democratic political culture. Its structure
was feudal social and political culture was equity.
The Peruvian State of the nineteenth century did not have a defined organizational body or vertebration
institutional. Public interests were not separated from private interests: there was tension
patrimonialismo between the warlords and feudal powers gamonalismo. Nor had a
centralized structure: state power was kept feudalized and weak links with the
warlordism. State powers were weak. The nineteenth-century Peru was not a vigorous elite
nor unified policies and state institutions to replace those who had organized the order
colonial. The Creoles both aristocrats and the middle class failed to become
an alternative to the colonial elite elite, and had, for that matter, the ability to create
necessary institutions to contribute to the organization of direct, centralized relationship and
individualistic of authority, and the establishment of a stable political order. Despite these
limitation elections nineteenth century played a very important role not only in the origin
legitimate governments but also the emergence of political citizenship.
Between 1821 and 1826 there was no state or government. Chaos reigned. This was maintained for the
early nineteenth century in the midst of civil wars and foreign wars. In that context,
Army was formed in the organization that managed harm than good to maintain the unity of the territory
in a disconnected the country externally and internally fragmented, balkanized and refeudalizado. The
central political actors were the Creoles and mestizos warlords who ascended to power through
successive blows, supported by the military, looking shaky alliances with the aristocracy
Creole intellectuals and surrounding himself with different orientations (Republicans, liberals and
Conservatives). It should be noted, however, that in the age of guano, reconnected with Peru
outdoor and an export business elite emerged that sought to change the epicenter policy

27

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

barracks civil society. She organized public finances and designed a legal system, but the
continued political order resting on coercion (army) and the main players remained
the warlords. The war with Chile interrupted this process of economic modernization, political and
state.
2.1.4. DEMOCRATIC STRUGGLES AGAINST
Undemocratic and anti-national

THE

SHAPES

OF

BEEN

Until the mid-nineteenth century, institutional insecurity was a major factor in the march
business in the Latin American region. Rearticulating not export production
He found the capital required to grow vigorously and debts acquired by States
Latin Americans in London caused great doubts about the economic viability
Latin American. The political articulation of the new governments had not led to formations
solid and stable state, leaving the exercise of power in the hands of local warlords
aristocratic nature that replaced each other by resorting to violence. At
origin of these conflicts are regional economic inequalities, from the
colonial era, were heightened after independence because of the almost total absence of a
state structure.
In an extraordinary act of ideological metamorphosis, the aristocracy began to adopt the
economic liberalism, entering symbiotic unity with the Catholic conservatism origin
above. The English influence of export business, the dominant political trends
internationally and expiration of the autarkic economy approaches
They collaborated in the ideological mutation that ushered in the cycle of liberal reforms in the
Most Latin American countries took place between 1860 and 1870.
In the first half of the twentieth century politics was recovered by the oligarchy that ruled the country in
gamonalismo alliance, relying on foreign capital and in the Armed Forces institutionalized.
She had no interest in recognizing and integrating the Andean world or organize a multicultural state.
He worried rather deny homogenizing through education in Spanish. The
defending their agricultural-exporting mining interests led her to organize an exclusive state
coercive and create the necessary bureaucratic apparatus and the legal system to help manage
better their business and their aristocratic power. He never interested in building a social bloc with
classes and organize a hegemonic state.
With the oligarchic State, established in 1895 by the coalition of the Democratic Party and Piérola
Civil party, small elitist political organizations then, Peru advanced to a certain
centralization of authority without fully achieve and promoted incipient specialization
some of its institutions. The oligarchy timidly opened the liberalization that was limited to
elite field, but still maintained a very low political participation of the population. It
However, for the first time in republican history the political order was in the hands of an elite
who, despite his noble traits, ethnic, asset and its commitments to the gamonalismo,
Forged Civil Party and promoted the growth and specialization of some state institutions,
including the professionalization of the armed forces
The oligarchic state was more or less centralized political and institutional form taken by the
State capitalist phase of commodity exports and food when it was in
hands of the noble elites. The peculiarity of the Peruvian case was that the State oligarchic
organized and combined racial, ethnic and social domination of the Creole elites, noble and landowners
about a multicultural society which most of the population was subjected to social exploitation,
mainly through relations of servitude and ethnic discrimination.

28

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

The ruling coalition, which organized and directed state power, was constituted by the
gamonalismo oligarchy and in close alliance with foreign capital. The oligarchic state
It failed to fully organize the monopoly of force coexisting with armed bands
gamonalismo. Oligarchic domination was based on the exclusion of the masses,
especially farmers, Cholas both as indigenous, of all their rights,
tendency to the total exclusion: regional social, racial, ethnic, gender. Many of these exclusions
They were "legally sanctioned". Public policies the oligarchic state had a
orthodox liberal character, especially their economic policies.
The economic expansion of the late nineteenth and early twentieth generated the
conditions for the emergence of the middle classes and the rural and mining proletariat, cities
Lima grew and developed as a metropolitan region that attracted migrants from displaced
rural zones. The growth led to a structural change in the economy going into society
and which also involved changes in the institutional framework. With the crisis of the 1930s,
new popular sectors, led by middle-class professionals, employees
public and employees, matured their political proposals, gave way to new
modern trade union organizations are predisposed to type and promote change.
Since the early twentieth century, the struggles of workers, peasants, students and
the middle classes sought the democratization of the state. Unlike other countries (Brazil,
Chile) in which the State passed the exclusion and repression incorporating classes
Popular mobilized and subsequent institutionalization of rights and Recognition
responsibilities- in Peru exclusion and repression continued.
Given the inability to take the state from outside and democratize it, the middle classes,
Accompanied by organized popular sectors, inside and took it invaded through
democratizing successive raids. These have taken place in certain situations of crisis
where political, economic and military elites were forced to show flexibility and openness
to open a space in the middle and lower classes. These then took channels
institutional to consolidate its position in politics and to enter the state, making some
changes in relationships of authority as increased political participation, but without achieving
the transformation of the basic features of the relations of the oligarchic state authority. The
changes made have to do, firstly, with the displacement of the gamonalismo
and political oligarchy, keeping power coalition, however, as a social power, although
weakened by peasant movements; and on the other, with a more aggressive state policy in the
field of education, the same that was closely associated with the process accelerated
urbanization.
There were three main democratizing inroads into this century.
to. The democratizing incursion of traditional middle and lower classes led by APRA
(1931, 1945, 1956).
b. The democratizing incursion of the new middle classes in whose direction were Action
Popular, the Christian Democrats and the Social Progressivism who entered Parliament in 1956 and
Executive power in 1963.
c. The democratizing incursion of the masses and the radical left who entered
the Constituent Assembly in 1978, to Parliament in 1980 and 1985, municipalities in 1983 and
regional governments in 1988. The latter democratizing incursion came after
the oligarchic state was overthrown by radical reforms of General Velasco.
All democratizing raids have occurred in situations of democratic transition
dictatorial regimes to democratic regimes. The prevailing political projects assumed a
populist inclusion and democratization. The attention to popular demands

29

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

best state services as public health, public education and a security framework
for civic life was present in the programs of many parties and 30
50. This stage is identified by the increased state intervention in the management of business,
from policies to encourage industrial activity, to the ever increasing intervention
State control and management of productive activities. The substitution model industrialist
imports, based on growth inward, allowed high growth rates in
the 1950s and 1960s.
Between 1950 and 1970 there was a political change of enormous historical projection. APRA, which
I was born to do great anti-oligarchic reforms, it became an ally party
oligarchy and the military, which had been the strong support of this, supported and promoted the
reforms. The military they did what they thought APRA do and did not. The military They sought, without
But that new business and political elites were placed at the head of those reforms.
That is the plain meaning of oligarchic and anti-APRA coup of 1962 and the election of
Belaunde in 1963. With the failure of Belaunde, the military They assumed, as an institution, the government
and state power with the coup of October 3, 1968.
Through deep structural reforms, of which the land reform was undoubtedly the most
Importantly, the military government liquidated the oligarchy and gamonalismo put limits
US domination, organized a national-popular bloc, offered better conditions
life to the popular classes and recognized Indians and cholos.
The military government launched major reforms that ended the oligárquicopatrimonial State, but failed to build a fully modern and effective state. He concentrated all
authority in the State; bureaucratic rule extended through the creation of various ministries;
He modernized and reinforced the power of the Armed Forces .; decapitated and reformed the judiciary; widened the
field of citizenship (to eliminate rural servitude) and displayed aggressive social policies and
cultural. He also undertook a bold education reform that expanded coverage but not
He improved its quality. Despite these important state changes, the government of Velasco failed
build a bureaucracy: rational, efficient, objective, impersonal. Nor did the law come to
throughout the territory. State institutions failed to work consistently and efficiently, as
all modern bureaucracy. The State failed to forge Velasco, however, a technocratic elite
premium that was able to develop an aggressive industrial development project and
engage business elites to do it.
The effects of the deep reforms undertaken by the first phase of government forces
Armed and counter-reforms, as the division of lands and the opening of neoliberalism,
They begin to speak openly as unavoidable contradictions. Major reforms
transform the social and cultural geography of the country. Accelerate the massive migration from rural to
city, overflowing urbanization, the explosive growth of Lima and large cities, the
massive street vendors, the appearance of millions of micro and small enterprises,
emergence of new cultural, political and social references.
It is set in what has been termed "informal", that is, an immense excluded socioeconomic sector that chooses develop and function outside the neooligárquico State
putting in crisis and creating a situation of serious conflict, which some call the
potential infeasibility of the country.
Actually it is the impossibility and the final collapse of the state of colonial heritage,
exclusive and centralist being unable to integrate new popular social quotas.
This state, which undergoes a radical renovation with neoliberal reforms that boosted
Fujimori during the nineties, unable to shed its oligarchic matrix or

30

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

gain in functional effectiveness; on the contrary, it deepens his divorce from society, increases its
isolation, as corrupt and authoritarian traits.
2.1.5. THE CURRENT STATE AND PREDATORY NEOLIBERAL
The Peru today houses the typical case (in Latin America) of a predatory state. Your State
cleptopatrimonialista neoliberal and, given the high levels of corruption that allowed. This involves
a previous operation: the kidnapping of the economic apparatus of the state in which they operate the
pinnacle of power, bureaucracy and high powers. Funding agencies
international and developed countries naturally wanted to collect their debts, large
investors sought to extract the maximum possible income through the exploitation of resources
natural and political elites and the high bureaucracy longed share of the spoils. All of these
voracities blocked together and block the ability to target the huge income that has
the country produced over the last twenty years of neoliberalism (and international bonanza in
last decade) to the long-term productive investment (leading to development) and prevented
the formation of an efficient bureaucracy.
Economic and state collapse (produced by Garcia in the late 80) and the crisis of the parties
politicians opened the door to the powers (international financial institutions, the
foreign investment, the local bourgeoisie, the military and the media) to reorder the economy and
State on its own terms: the establishment of a neoliberal economic model and end
at your service predatory state, using the high command of the Armed Forces partner and
support. Then come the conservative hierarchy of the Church to bless this unholy
social and political coalition. The neoliberal model and end the predatory state are brothers
lighting twins in the same delivery. They were born of aggressive neoliberal reforms
(Opening the economy to international markets, deregulation of all markets
privatization of public enterprises) whose main objective was to overthrow the state and
enthroning the self-regulating market.
The neoliberal coalition obviously is not interested in forging a national coalition or deploy,
for that reason, appropriate public policies that meet the interests, needs,
rights and aspirations of the masses. The predatory state has institutionalized
social discrimination through the implementation of social policies (education, health and safety
public) of poor quality and of an alleged rule of law that does not reach all. For the
poor up the crumbs are delivered through an elementary populism: reduce
poverty with gifts.
According to several studies, the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) produced by informality and sectors
service exceeds 60.0% of the total. Meanwhile, the economically active population (EAP)
informal and low productivity is about 70.0% of the total, while the exclusion of the
social security is significant. In other words, most of the economic activity and
social of the country takes place outside the control of the current state. It therefore does not correspond
our social, economic, political and cultural reality. As 180 years ago, the state functions
for a small minority, it excludes the vast majority continues to live with his back to Peru.
This situation puts at serious risk the national and social development, so it is imperative and urgent
its radical transformation. It is organizing a new state that includes and represents all
Peruvians, without exclusion or marginalization of any kind. The overwhelming social, the
called informal sector, Peru is mestizo, cholo predominantly Andean roots, wide
Most demographic, socio-cultural and economic equality in society, claiming their participation
policy in a new inclusive, pluralistic and democratic state.
Hence the urgency of building a multicultural, representative, and decentralized state
democratic, that is the state of the new Peru, the Peru of all.

31

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016
2.2.

GANA PERU

A new democratic, multicultural and decentralized REPUBLIC

The construction of pluralistic and decentralizing State, notwithstanding, only or mainly, to the
need for a just act of historical reparation for our indigenous people and
mestizos, but the inescapable imperative of building a true national community of men
free and equal, bound by a primordial sense of equality that comes from recognizing
heirs of large-western Spanish, and Inca civilizations of which we have built
an Amazonian Andean culture itself, mestizo, which today define our identity and links us to
so dear and indispensable to our territory, tradition and culture.
It is the development of this community of free and equal citizens, with a sense of dignity and
esteem, without exclusion or marginalization which trigger the creative forces and
processing of the heirs of the people who made changes and constructions
portentous in these territories.
The achievements today are detected in Gamarra, Unicachi, Villa el Salvador, Juliaca, among others, not
They are but pale signs of creative and transforming power of our people.
Optimize these forces through individual and collective dignity and allow integration
national cohesion and produce a fundamental change in Peruvian society.
We will make a strong, prosperous and united country, and we can take a leadership role in
South American Community of Nations, and will allow us to locate in a place of dignity and respect
in the concert of planetary globalization.
A multicultural and decentralizing state involves:













The recognition of Peru as a multicultural country, where people live and develop
and ethnic groups to maintain their own cultures and languages. Which like the
Peruvians who speak Spanish have the same rights that must be present in the
State and respected in everyday life.
The subordination of individual and group interests of the homeland interests.
That the highest political authorities and officials of the national state (civil and
military) have basic knowledge of the languages ​​and cultures of the various existing
in the country.
Intercultural State policy requires not only respect for other cultures, but
essentially their knowledge, understanding and dialogue. That in regions and localities
where populations have different languages ​​and cultural practices Hispanic-Creole,
the basic services of the Peruvian State are implemented taking into account the
language and cultural expressions of the peoples of the area.
That educational processes and cultural policies of the State shall take into account this
multicultural guidance and develop permanently and practices
feed pluralism, integration and social cohesion from this diversity.
The national education system, require, in certain careers the
knowledge of Quechua, Aymara and Ashaninka Awajún to obtain the title
professional. This will be a general requirement in regions where the population speaks,
mostly, these languages.
Knowledge and cultural practices (health, legal, education, nutrition, etc.) of
Indigenous peoples will be reassessed and incorporated into national policies and State
they become legitimate and valid practice, not just in your area but around the
National territory.

32

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016
2. 3.

GANA PERU

THE SOCIAL CONTRACT TO TRANSFORM THE STATE AND BUILD A
NATION FOR ALL

The aim of a new political charter, which is a response to the political conditions of Peru,
It is achieved through a progressive majority to break with the veto of big capital and achieve a
new friendly people and different social contract neoliberal contract established in 1993.
This new social contract must embody the desire for social justice and welfare of the majority
national development that has been denied to Peru along its republican history. In this
sense, the new constitution should allow transform the state and nation building for
all the work that has been denied in the past two transitions to democracy, from 1980 to 2000.
Transitions to democracy fail to consolidate in Peru because they insist on doing it
from the mold of the old Creole republic for its heritage foundations and oligarchic
It is not interested in the final establishment of any democracy.
Given the great objective of transforming the state and building a nation for all,
We propose four themes of the new letter:
First: An active social State and guarantee the rights of people
We need a state that expresses the will of society and that is not subject to the logic
the economic power of private groups and new political oligarchies. This new form
state becomes indispensable in the world after the exhaustion of the neoliberal model
that our country should join if you want to achieve progress.









Define the constitutional, social and democratic state that is decentralized, secular,
multicultural and participatory.
An active and responsible for the welfare of the people, contrary to a minimum and STATUS
Text socially irresponsible 1993.
State guarantor of constitutional rights of citizens of both
individual and political, social, cultural and solidarity rights
They considered as a whole as fundamental rights.
It should underline the character of social rights and free public services
education and health, taking away the character of goods left to the vagaries of
market.
Must be guaranteed the right to work and social security, the right to strike,
trade union organization and collective bargaining.
It should ensure the inclusion of indigenous peoples, with respect for the particularity
of their rights, Peruvian democracy.

Second: An economic regime for social justice
We must abandon the dictatorship of the neoliberal economic model embodied in chapter
1993 text, which expresses a nonexistent market fundamentalism in other constitutions
world and inhibits economic agents, by severe social instability occurs, for
invest, produce and work.





We must regain public authority of the state in economic matters.
We must reclaim work as the main source of wealth.
Free enterprise is part of a national market economy.
The government plans to economic and social development of the country arranging the actors
respective.

33

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016










GANA PERU

The state regulates the development of economic activity.
The State guarantees all, both private, public and cooperative forms of ownership
and community.
The right to private property exists in harmony with the public interest and the law.
The state develops a promoter role and when necessary business in sectors
considered strategic for economic development.
The State promotes and favors domestic investment, both private and public.
The State indicates the validity of the Constitution and laws above contracts.
Renewable and non-renewable natural resources are the property of the nation.
The Central Bank is autonomous but the president must give at least one
once to Congress on the work of the entity year.

Third: A reform of government to return confidence to the citizen
We must end the presidential warlordism in successive constitutions legislated and exaggerated
to end in 1993. This text warlordism is the core of power elites at the crossroads
economic and political capture the state to put at your service. Hence the need for
a form of government that gives citizens access to their representatives and set
mechanisms of participation and democratic control.







You have to separate the positions of head of state (president) and head of
government (prime minister). The first keeps driving strategic policy
State and the conduct of foreign relations and defense, and the second deals with
governance.
The recall comes at all levels, including the President of the Republic.
No need to return the constitutional status of political parties, promoting
internal democratization of them through open primaries and
simultaneously, providing public funding for operation and giving them access to
the means of communication both public and private.
Improve the electoral system to ensure transparency of the processes that delimit
better the functions of existing bodies in it. The base of the transparency
is in the current existence of a body that organizes the electoral process and one that
exercises electoral justice, ie sees the contentious issues.

Fourth: An effective decentralization that empowers municipalities and regions


It is essential to effective decision-making power, both political and economic, to the
municipalities and regions to enable them to fulfill their role as authorities in their
respective places. For this we need for administrative decentralization
it is accompanied by fiscal decentralization as part of a fluid system
relations between different levels of government.

These four themes explain why we noted the need to transform the State and
build a political community to all, picking the best of our tradition
constitutional, that is, the historical constitution of Peru to give a new political charter.
Whatever way you choose to get a new constitution, the starting point
It should be the annulment of the 1993 text and the declaration of the validity of the Constitution of 1979
all its effects, for from there, make the necessary changes.
The two paths to a new Constitution are: Constituent Assembly and reform
integrated via the Congress. In both cases it would be of utmost importance that
a referendum gave final approval to the new constitutional text.

3. 4

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

2.4.

A DECENTRALIZATION FOR CASH TO EMPOWER THE REGIONS AND
MUNICIPALITIES

2.4.1

The disconnect between the state government administration and occupation
the territory
to.

Quick diagnosis.

It is necessary to overcome the centralist state, built by the Republic and its continuation Oligarchic
neoliberal, to forge a new democratic, decentralized, said from society
participatory and inclusive national community. This new democratic state and decentralized
It means dynamic regions and territories with a new tax scheme and a new map
distribution of powers between the national government, regional and municipal governments,
native and peasant communities, and civil society.
Economic, spatial and political centralization are the main features of the Peruvian economy.
The current government apparatus maintains an institutional structure that responds to a
geographical and economic reality, characterized by an increasing process of urbanization,
population growth and new economic role of the departments. Attempts to
decentralization in the country have been made back to the new dynamics of the territories
decentralized.
They are changing the axes of articulation of the various territories. This modification
It produced by internal conditions, but is heavily influenced by globalization and integration
continental. Its consequence is the widening of inequalities and territorial gaps
(Horizontal imbalances), as production and property are concentrated in a modern coast
it takes on a more sustained by their ability to accumulate surpluses territorial dynamism
regional, expand their markets and develop greater links with the world market. They
and setting are six major territorial areas: the north macro; the Amazon; the macro
South; South Central, and Andean center. Lima-Callao is the sixth, which aims to be a macro
region.
The extractive-export commodity character of the neoliberal model and rising
impacts of global warming, have emphasized the urgent need for a new relationship
harmony with the territory. Decentralization should forge a rapprochement with roots and
territorial potential of the nation. In this regard, since the adoption of the Organic Act
Sustainable Use of Natural Resources (1997), the Organic Laws
Regional and Local Governments; the creation of the National Environmental Management System (2004) and
last Water Resources Act (2008), has been discussing the issue of zoning and
land use planning to promote sustainable economic use of
natural resources.
However, to date, it has not yet been achieved regulating the design and implementation of
land use plans due to overlapping functions across multiple sectors
State and insufficient systematization of social and economic information as a basis for
discussion and formulation of measures to future scenarios (prospective approach).
Spontaneous modification of the pivot axes of the various decentralized territories
It has led to increased regional tensions that occur in the following problems
by abuse of irrational exploitation of natural resources in poverty and
pressure for survival:

35

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016










GANA PERU

The Amazon is not fully integrated into the dynamics of the nation.
The Amazon is invaded by operators of natural resources and poor farmers
They are pushing for the use of land and forest resources and that, together with the respective
trade flows, exacerbate conflicts with indigenous peoples.
Increasing concentration of activities and infrastructure in the coastline with a population
impoverished cities with no productive base and informality without productivity.
a greater focus on Andean cities occurs without productive basis without services
locked in their potential, while rural areas are depopulated.
The continuing urbanization and sprawl is without services, and collapse
existing infrastructures.
The creation of a rentier metropolis around Lima, which is the main market and
Sniffer income, while center with large pockets of poverty.
The sea is not integrated into the regional dynamics, and it predates the overexploitation of
some species.

These dynamics make broader territorial gaps and inequities within the framework of a
extended and widespread impoverishment enclaves arrangements for major
activities of exploitation of natural resources in the regions, especially mines, power
energy and forests. Territorial inequality gap is increasing, as it concentrates
production and ownership in a handful of large landowners. Dynamic running low
territorial established in the twentieth century to the macrocephalic Lima.
Agreements inland and border integration are giving rise to mega-regions
Continental, which brings us closer territorial dynamics. Strategic options
country depends if we incorporate the national macro-regions as active subjects who dispute
a competitive place based on their endogenous development, or include us as satellites
dislocamos subordinates and our border areas. Decentralization is one of here
their most critical challenges, because the inertial dynamics leads to a territorial dislocation of spaces
macroregional around continental mega-regions, having to make public policy
specific and prioritized to be an active part of the top national unity more
coexistence and under duress.
Shy decentralizing administrative reform, which began after the fall of autocracy
Fujimori, it has been abandoned, deformed into an asymmetric transfer market, between a
powerful national government, which recentralized ally to State economic groups, and
which is headed by subnational and local governments weakened in its powers,
resources and institutions. This model would weaken the autonomy and citizenship in
relationships between levels of government, to reduce it to market relations, where reigns
economic power and their representatives. This model is completed with the Organic Law of Governments
Regional that although elected by the people, not have their own resources and depend on
two sources, which are transfers to the discretion of the national government and the existence of funds
product of privatization and / or resources allocated by the national government. Asymmetry
complete with the transfer to regional governments stop payments of the sectors
public health and education, but without powers in sectoral and administrative policies with the
consequence of inflating the accounts of their budgets on running costs.
The model transfers began to be challenged with the need for own resources
part of regional governments. This is the problem of fiscal decentralization. The government
National maintains the essentials of the central administration. They preserved and expanded in
national government programs typically municipal level, such as food (Pronaa) of
land titling (Cofopri), or urban development. The same applies at the regional level, with
the zoning and land use. At the same time, the national government transferred assets
programs and problems that require redesign and funding, such as projects

36

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

hydropower which are transferred without a national entity is constituted and water without
regional governments have the resources and skills to meet your needs.
One of the most serious problems of regional and local government is handling the
Public investment. This problem is enhanced when grown in sub-national governments
(Regional, provincial and district) fee revenues, derived from the export boom
raw materials, which generates a fiction of local-regional prosperity, which in this case extends
based on permanent expenditure windfalls (canon); proper use of waste
This extraordinary income, and increases territorial gaps are six regions for which the
concentrated, and there are no compensatory funds.
The transfer model sharpens these problems and has failed to solve them, to distrust and
hinder the decentralized exercise of regional administration. Fragmentation drives
Public investment. Not only in the negotiations but in the very conception of the role of
subnational governments. For example, it has been in transfers to local governments
virtually nullified the level of provincial government, which has affected 19 cities
intermediate, or city-regions, which should have effective powers to be substantive actors
decentralization. At the same time, the processes of citizen participation, such as
participatory budgets, are promoted, regulated and promoted by the central government
a format that organizes a pressure of demands to fragmented efforts,
weakening and being opposed to the just demand of citizen participation in the
budget and development projects decisions.
The weakening of the autonomous administration of the regions, the national system adds
Public Investment (SNIP), organized centralized manner. And it constitutes a serious distortion
the actual state planning agency is not a ministry or a national entity
but planning is the Ministry of Finance which through its
It establishes dependencies on plans to which all organisms are subjected. They
assumes no planning for national development objectives and its territories, but from the
fiscal management of resources. At this distortion is added, or it is apparent, the system
public investment, designed to be the national level, through the MEF, to decide and
not only the investment of the national government, but also the significant investment of governments
sub-regional and municipal. The centralization of SNIP is highly inefficient, because
leading to prioritize projects without approval in the territory where they are located; to the
establishment of rates actually separated investment financing and implementation; to the
neglect of maintenance investments in infrastructure, as the national treasury overtime
deadlines raising the cost of projects. Left to the arbitrary
central government key decisions and key input and real
spending authorizations.
Undoubtedly, there are serious limitations to the formulation and implementation of projects
investment in subnational governments. The centralized system response has been SNIP
cut the maximum capacity of decision. It is absurd. The only way
optimize the use of investment resources of the regions and municipalities is that their wide
capacity decision be accompanied by technical assistance for the training of their
investment offices, training of specialized personnel and public career
monitoring performance indicators in an assisted and constant self-regulation,
contests, sharing and other modalities. The recentralization of state
He opposes this.

b. Policy proposals.

37

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016























GANA PERU

Macro-regional development areas. The national government, regional governments
subnational and intermediate cities you metropolizadas have shared competences, to
From the plot of the strategic core national infrastructure, to articulate large
macro-regional areas of territorial development, according to the new National Plan
Regionalization.
Regional governments. The formation of broader, cross-regions will be encouraged to
From the proposed statutes formulate the regions themselves and their members, and
they are approved by Congress, according to what is established in the Plan
National Regionalization.
Municipal, provincial and district governments. The role of local government will be affirmed, of
representation of citizens, with modern management systems, expanding
forms of citizen participation and responsibility of shared competence
local economic development.
Active, educators, healthy, healthy and safe cities. The role of cities will recover
as active subjects of decentralization, an urban-regional national system,
organize adequate territorial relationship and its public spaces, in their respective relationship
soil-water-settlement-infrastructure, including metropolizadas cities, cities
organizers of the urban-rural areas and the cities of rural areas and population centers.
Peasant and indigenous communities in indigenous territories and areas. It will be recognized and
promote the powers of local government administration in the affairs of its
competence and in coordination with subnational levels of government.
Coordination and development boards, neighborhood associations and other organizations
civil society. In a new relationship between the state and civil society, they will entrench the different
forms of citizen participation in government services (health, education, security,
power) and regional and local public affairs.
Incentives for the formation of regions as political units, with the union of
departments and surrounding areas. Policy formation regions should be within a
land use plan and regionalization approved by qualified majority
Congress of the republic.
Distribution and clear delimitation of the exclusive, shared and delegated powers,
between each level of local, regional and national government to subnational governments
they can develop their own sectoral policies and are not simply managers
national policies.
Real economic and financial autonomy of subnational governments with adequate
fiscal decentralization stage for the resources to enforce the policies
local and regional. This autonomy should aim to end the dictatorship of the Ministry of
Economy and Finance, which requires local and regional governments to beg
monthly by the money available.
Changing the electoral system, to raise the minimum percentage of votes to be elected, of
so that will give greater stability to subnational governments.
Recognition of the various forms of citizen participation, organizations
social forces and civil society.
Effective recognition of the rights of representation, territory, and local-community government
indigenous under the ILO Convention 169 people.

2.4.2

Problems in the relationship of the central administration with management
regional and local

38

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

to. Quick diagnosis.
At present, the problems of relationship between the central government and subnational governments
(Regional and municipal) are still valid. While the Basic Law of Decentralization
(LBD) defines the exclusive competence of each level of government, powers
shared and powers are left vague, shaping a confusing map
powers between levels of government, that becomes intergovernmental conflicts.
In late 2004, the Accreditation System Act and its regulations, which is considered approved on
step required for them to be transfers. This accreditation process is
variegated, confused, highly bureaucratic, lacks quality assessment and indicators
performance. Thus, the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF) holds powers
exclusive in planning public investment programs typically field
municipal and food programs (PRONAA), land titling-under
COFOPRI- management or urban development. The same applies at the regional level, with
the zoning and land use.
The transfers from the central government to local governments leave aside a
General map of the skills and resources necessary links. This system
policies and fragmented skills in separate and independent functions decoupling the
Resource competition. In addition, this model requires the Central government transfers to
Repeat for each whole cycle of accreditation required, and implement models
management that is not theirs or are adequate, as they have been built to the level
national.
The National Public Investment System (SNIP) complete this weakening, organized
centralized way. And constitutes a serious distortion that the planning agency
State is not a ministry or national planning entity, but is that the MEF
through its agencies established multiyear plans that are held all
agencies and local agencies. Thus, planning and policy development
They cross not arise from national development objectives and its territories, but from
fiscal management of resources. Thus, the snip is the tool that allows
is the central cobierno, through the MEF, to decide, and not only government investment
national, but also the significant investment of subnational (regional and
municipal).
b. Policy proposals.
Skills and fiscal decentralization:
Review and promotion of the draft Land Act in order to rethink
the relationship between government administration and the new configuration of the country.
This proposal includes the following:
b.1. On the issue of delegation of responsibilities:


Defining a new map of the areas of competence of government. This map has as
focused on ensuring the state's presence throughout the national territory and
will sustain institutional principles of transparency, management and participation of various
levels of government and civil society. This proposal includes the following:

39

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016








GANA PERU

Creating an autonomous entity responsible for the supervision, monitoring and penalty
subnational governments. The members of this institution will be independent,
elected for ten years and overseen by Congress. In this way it seeks
preserve fiscal discipline to avoid imbalances by central government permissiveness
on some local governments.
Encourage training policies of regional bureaucracy with permanent rotation
between the central and local bureaucracy, without any increase in total bureaucracy.
Generating a formal space that will bring together civil society, local governments
and the central government to establish guidelines and coordinated escalation in
delegation of fiscal responsibilities to local governments.
Implementation of programs to protect social spending (education, health and protection
social) funds to be intangible for these purposes.

b.2.En the issue of access to economic resources:


Define a new fiscal pact between the central government and subnational government levels
(Regional and municipal), based on the set of decentralization proposals
tax advanced by the Assembly of Presidents of Regional Governments. This new covenant
It should include revenue and expenditure policies that strengthen the diversification of territories and
levels of autonomy with its own resources in subnational governments with policy
sharing of taxes. In this regard the following key policies are necessary:
 Upgrading the system of transfers from the central government to local governments
in order to reduce the horizontal and vertical imbalances between regions without
This design comes to set up a structure that discourages the collection of each
region.
 Set out the current set of tax rules in order to eliminate empty
Institutional prevails. The current institutional framework has very restrictions
permissive and lacks effective monitoring mechanisms and penalties to
breach of fiscal rules (accountability) that political and electoral motivation
it could jeopardize the country's macro-fiscal discipline.
b.3.En the issue of public debt management:



Implementation of a "fiscal golden rule" for all types of borrowing governments
regional. Thus the total funds raised by higher debt, whether external or
internal, it should be channeled only to public investment rather than current spending in each
region.
b.4.Otras fiscal policies:






Implementation of a comprehensive and decentralized registration tax that promotes the
offices of the companies to be fixed in the region where they operate.
Running a bonus system transfers as performance indicators,
and public development goals of each of the management regions.
Development in the municipalities of taxation of direct charge that the law
decentralization bases permits.
Promotion of a regional tax returns. This retention consist, for
individuals under the regime of dependent and independent work, with a flat rate
above the fee schedule, without any stop payment. The rate of this
tax may be raised by the central government in a low range with the aim of
avoid distortions and offset the regressive nature.

On regional and local government management

40

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016























GANA PERU

We approve a plan transfer medium term based on the review and reset
current plan (2005-2010), with a view to encourage the formation of circuits and spotlights
strengthen the regional geo-economic market growth, employment and
He entered.
We will complete the regulatory framework with the approval of the Organic Law of the Executive,
the Framework Law on Public Employment and the new Law on Citizen Participation and Control.
We refund the participatory budget process, to boost the tips
regional and local coordination and consultation spaces and state-civil society as
expression of a shared management approach.
We will articulate systems of local and regional public participation (CCR, CCL, committees
management, citizen monitoring, etc.), to interrelate information, planning, management and
control.
There will be mandatory accountability at all levels of government at least two
times a year, through public hearings. Failure will be punished.
He governed the revocation of authorities according to specific rules.
Municipal associations refund basin, valley, economic corridor or region
department.
Reorganize the National Council of Decentralization and coordination functions
joint state sectors with regional and local governments to accelerate
decentralization process and establish joint strategies regions criteria
participation and mainstreaming.
We will increase funding from the Municipal Compensation Fund (FONCOMUN) 2%
to 3% of IGV.
We shall abolish prefectures, sub-prefectures and governors, and will transfer its functions to
local governments.
Local governments will transfer systems and local health care centers
Level I and II.
development advisory councils will be formed in each local government presence
representatives of DPOs and government sectors present in the jurisdiction tables
local labor and technical networks.
Regular meetings of accountability and sectoral offices will be established
OPD of the jurisdiction of the local coordinating council.
The Organic Law of Municipalities that allows the signing of agreements to be amended
utilities for the collection of excise and public cleaning
environmental conservation.
A national system of continuing education and municipal training will be established.

On the territorial urban development
to)

Quick diagnosis.

The world is undergoing an intense process of urbanization, expression of the new technical information age
global. Peru is no stranger to this process. The rural population constituted 70% in 1940. It fell to
30% in 1993, while the urban population increased to 70%. In 2007 the urban population
It reached 75.9% and 24.1% rural. It is planned by 2015 80% of urban population and 20%
rural. There are 19 departments with mainly urban population (all the coast, the
Most of the forest and saw six) and six mostly rural population (almost all
Saw).
Due to the lack of a national market economy, in Peru there decoupling
between urban competitiveness of cities and national competitiveness, the tendency to

41

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

concentrated in Lima, the same as it is facing the macro-system training
national urban.
Urban growth since 1940 is continuous and irreversible in all areas of the territory,
considered as urban population on the coast and in the mountains, seated on conglomerates
2,000 inhabitants and more, and in the jungle of 500 inhabitants or more. This press urban growth
by the use of water resources, soil and air, by the provision of natural resources, and
changes in economic functions of cities and local-global linkages. Urbanization
It has a fundamental role in the articulation of territorial economic axes. In the mountains and
forest land resources influence the size and economic weight of their cities.
According to Census 2007, Lima remains the largest aggregate of 40.7%
the urban population. The top 30 cities (excluding Lima) account for 30.0% and
rest 29.3% urban. It is notorious the distorted pattern of population settlement, with high and
increasing concentration in major agglomerations and high and growing dispersion
remaining. Migrations are accentuated within macro-regions, and within them
metropolizan the largest urban agglomeration cities on the coast, the highlands and the Amazon. Do not
There is an appropriate hierarchy of the national urban system, the relationship between its people,
economic functions and its political and administrative role.
But urbanization has features that explain the distortion of the urban system
in the management of territory. It is a development based in job prospects rather than
the economic-productive accumulation. The land use is inadequate, as it is characterized
for real estate speculation, which affects the limited arable land, and is mostly
Horizontal high installation costs. They are migrants who through their own efforts
They have built from the peripheries of major cities before the abandonment of state and
predominance of speculation. Urban growth is done in locations with severe
risks and vulnerabilities to natural phenomena.
These distortions, before the decisive urban growth are related to wrong policies
on urban development. The State has not taken responsibility and has fluctuated between
boost property speculation and the timid promotion standards for housing and support
self. Neoliberalism imposed the abandonment of the state's responsibilities and
market dominance in urban processes and private provision of housing. They were weakened and
It nullified key state institutions in urban and territorial matters, it was eliminated in the
1993 Constitution the right to housing, and laws and regulations are given to kill the
Basic requirements and facilitate the construction without complying with technical standards and planners
key professionals. Real estate speculation was established by neoliberalism
as the center of urban development. Policies, segmented and limited, such as network
water and electrical connections, have not been part of an integrated urban system.
Neoliberalism has heightened the distortions between cities and territory. Advances in
volumes of investments and works are contrasted with problems that create and exacerbate. They
affecting the economic and productive potential; Cities are fragmented across sectors
locked in ghettos facing areas related to the global world; erode the
basic public transport services and public safety; quality of life is precarious in
food, health and education; They will be reduced to non-residents spaces
Public and streets; predation of the adjoining rural areas is accentuated by being reduced to mere
provider of urban land; They accrue gaps between some competitive areas
connected to the global world and other cloistered and remote areas of large circuits
macroregional by lack of infrastructure, and move public functions of government
Local mining companies to assume these roles and privatized.

42

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016
b)

GANA PERU

Policy proposals:

The goal is the formation of the Territorial Urban Decentralized System of the nation. However
the consequences of neoliberalism, there is a new situation with the massive and growing process
urbanization, pointing and generates the conditions of its transformation. There are elements of a
national urban system, with integration, new connections, functions, sustainability
environmental and decisive participation, facilitate and promote a new relationship between urban
the settlements and the potential of the territories, as a substantive element
decentralized development. To this end, the following policies are proposed:























Consolidating and developing the National Urban System as a public instrument of State
land use planning process and decentralization.
Consolidate the processes of planning and territorial development based on zoning
Organic economic, in accordance with the corresponding urban system according to
their nests, types, roles and functions of cities as economic driving forces and
strategic areas for locating, investment flows and economic activities
technological innovations.
Promote an integrated treatment of urban and rural areas in the planning and management of
territory and its relationship with cities.
Promote the development of the local territory with the establishment of the Strategic Core
Adequate infrastructure in decentralized national urban hierarchy, that strengthens the
metropolisation processes in the macro-regions and integrative connections between
wider and more scattered settlements, setting agglomerations
polyfunctional centers radial connection services in the local territories.
Consolidate and integrate the supply of suitable urban land, basic infrastructure and transport,
equipment and services in accordance with urban plans and territorial development
concert prepared by all local actors, which gives priority to cities
medium and small.
Affirming the multisectoral nature of regional urban system, arranging the actions of the
public and private business and community sectors around the objectives and strategies
National Urban Development Plan.
Strengthen institutions of regional and local governments, mechanisms and
instruments needed urban land management in the economic and financial aspects,
regulatory, technical, organizational and participatory permanent information in the metropolis
national, intermediate cities, smaller towns and rural settlements, as a basis for
sustainable development of the territory.
Expand and support municipal functions to plan and promote economic development
Local, established by the Law of Municipalities.
Promote public policies of digital cities with the formation of spaces networks
electronic communication that configure an interactive mesh of citizens with government
subnational and in social and productive life.
Continue the regularization of informal settlements by encouraging their improvement or
partial or total relocation to suitable areas for urban development and to prioritize cases
attention to physical security vulnerabilities.
Establish a system of urban land information as a planning tool,
production decisions and investment and participation of the economic agents,
Business and community, as well as for monitoring purposes, monitoring and evaluation
implementation processes of this system.
Reset the powers and functions of professional bodies, engineers and
Architects, on the process and the supervision and inspection of investment in public construction
and private.
Supporting urban-territorial management of local and regional governments, with studies
concluded pre-investment programs and projects for urban infrastructure

43

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

improve the educational infrastructure, health, sanitation and economic premises (terminals
and inter-urban transport, provincial supply markets, landfills and
treatment and reuse of wastewater).

44

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016
2.5.

GANA PERU

REFORM OF PUBLIC AUTHORITIES

The reform will be gradual and procedural manner.
2.5.1. JUDICIAL REFORM
The reform of the Peruvian justice system requires a state policy that required no
impair its independence, involve the judiciary, prosecutors, National Council
Judiciary, the OCMA, the Constitutional Tribunal, professional associations, civil society
organized and political organizations.
The judicial reform is an important step in the democratic process, and requires the
building needed basic consensus between the major social, political forces and
community to guide and make it sustainable.
We will constitute the whole justice system, with defined powers and autonomy.
We adopt the main recommendations of the Special Committee for Comprehensive Reform
the Administration of Justice (CERIAJUS) on the need for a judicial system that access
citizens, that is reliable, predictable, effective, autonomous and independent in their
making at all institutional levels. It will be entrusted legal certainty, protection
fundamental rights and social peace. We affirm the achievements made in the plan
approved and translated into state policy under the national agreement, they are to consider developments
and expedite do actually missing.













We fight against exclusion of millions of Peruvian justice service. Commoners,
peasants, patrolmen, original inhabitants, small farmers and workshop, women,
young and old, infants, adults at risk not access the service by barriers
cultural, linguistic (34 native languages), economic and political. It will be considered
equitable allocation of court fees and exemption from court fees to be awarded
excluded sectors in 516 districts in 18 superior courts.
Community justice and judicial functions shall be encouraged. Legal clinics
Popular and public defenders, using rules of conciliation and arbitration, translators,
elimination of court fees, bilingual judges elected and overall awareness
the multicultural and multiethnic nature of the country.
Equal access is sought. Great powers, through corruption, managed
install and quickly vent their records in ad hoc meeting when they must face the
justice for their links with mafia networks. While the peace courts, which are
the greater proximity to the population, suffer from severe deficiencies and therefore delay the
processes.
We will prioritize the fight against corruption in the judicial system. Judge be infringing
disqualified for any public office.
It is incorporated by express provision, to the military justice in the jurisdiction of the judiciary.
A new judicial career based on a meritocratic system drive is
promote access to the judiciary with a proven democratic path and
shall encourage self-governance rules clarifying the Judiciary and the Public Ministry,
suggested by the CERIAJUS, and for coordination of the National Council
Judiciary and the Constitutional Court.
Independent control organ will be created in the judiciary.
The Governing Council of the Judicial Power shall issue policies and exercise control over
formulation, implementation and budgetary control over it.

4. 5

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016








GANA PERU

the (logistics, personnel, accounting, finance, etc.) administrative functions will be organized
so that they are the sole judges of the courts dedication.
The system of selection and appointment of judges will be refined to assess
knowledge and experience of the applicants, morality, honesty and ethics professionals. The
evaluation processes carried out by the National Council of the Magistracy shall be public and
transparent.
He convened a national contest for the initial levels of the judicial career (secretaries and
professional peace judges), among the graduates to occupy the first places in the
law schools of the universities.
The new Criminal Procedure Code will be implemented. The research will be at the
Public Ministry with the support of the National Police.

2.5.2. REFORM EXECUTIVE
The reform suggests the implementation of strategic planning center of the country through
CEPLAN and the establishment of a national council for economic and social development adviser. He
CEPLAN current operation makes the instrument to implement the Plan
National development, the objectives of long, medium and short term, and articulates the efforts and
resources of regional and local authorities to the central government.




















A new decentralized national authority transfer of powers to be promoted
regional, provincial and district governments, so that the current proportion of resources
Public evolve from 70% to 30% Central decentralized towards parity relationship to the
period and gradually onwards to a ratio of 30% to 70%.
A national authority for the management of state companies and holdings will be encouraged
that optimizes business engagement and provide guidance to companies economy
Mixed to promote the state.
It will reform the public system by applying the most advanced logistics management systems and
inventory, personnel, information, processes, marketing, communication and control function,
which will be headed by a national authority technological reform of the public sector,
participation of civil society.
Formulation and budgetary control will be modernized with the spread of the Integrated System
Financial Management and Integrated Administrative Management System.
The full independence of the national control system will ensure and establish a
accountability system, public affirmation of transparency and media development
citizen participation in control.
Corruption, bribery, cronyism and the card left are deleted.
The scale of public sector wages remain unchanged. This will set a ceiling, which
the remuneration granted is, in every respect, President of the Republic. Any
public official shall receive remuneration greater than that figure.
The public officials who work in areas where Quechua and Aymara should talk
know one of these languages.
Any public official Essalud use services and / or private insurance for their
own expense, have chosen.
He reassigned the staff of the National Police of Peru and other operational support for
security officials to public security work.
Productivity bonuses will be deleted.
expenses were eliminated in government advertising, spoken and written, except for campaigns
health education and social sectors.
It will reform and centralize the state pension system.
The current remuneration system of the members of the will be restructured comprehensively
Armed forces.

46

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016
2.6.

GANA PERU

National crusade against corruption and moralize
POLICY

The fight against corruption will be a permanent State policy and long-term struggle
without quarter against the mafias and groups of power.
We take sustained and patriotic commitment to fight corruption impairs
Peruvian society, especially since the fujimontesinista authoritarian regime.
 We will conduct a national crusade to punish corruption and prevent impunity,
making special efforts in the fight against mafias and drug cartels.
 It is essential to implement public resources to reach excluded communities,
impoverished and abandoned by traditional politics. By creating a culture of anti-
corruption, sensitize Peruvians with a clear message: Banish corruption is a
problem of government and citizens, allies and acting together.
 The Ministry of Justice will be called Ministry of Justice and Human Rights.
 The culture of the fight against corruption will be primarily educational and will be responsible
the Ministry of Education to coordinate with the Ministry of Justice and Human Rights.
 Will there be legislative initiatives aimed at improving the transparency of purchases and sales
State.
 will install the National Anti-Corruption Commission, an independent, autonomous, the same as
generate a space of reflection citizen born of a popular demand.
 propose a joint action with the international community against Financial Network
the corruption.
 Latin America to propose approval of legislation to cases
extradition, embezzlement, extortion, bribery and other crimes against the administration
public.
 We will create networks of citizen oversight committees civic district, provincial and regional
transparency united fight against corruption.
 We will promote the values ​​in the fight against corruption, we will award the civil value to avoid and
report acts of corruption.
 The media will be declared strategic allies in the fight against
corruption and a tool to raise public awareness.
 The fight against corruption will be preventive and law will be applied rigorously to punish
corruption. All public officials are assigned to the presentation of
sworn statements of assets and income.
 auditing investment contracts, amnesties and tax exemptions will be made to
identify good practices and create new models of anti-corruption standards.
 In criminal matters, we propose:
to. The applicability of crimes against the State and against his disqualification for life
perpetrators or accomplices to the future exercise of any public function.
b. The suspended sentence for convictions should only proceed not exceeding two years instead of four
as allowed by the current Penal Code.
c. Regulation or elimination of prison benefits to those who commit illegal corruption
officials, in order to avoid the corruption of turning on theoretical convictions
and let the free will to the authorities of the National Penitentiary Institute.


2.7.

ASSERT HUMAN RIGHTS POLICY AGAINST VIOLENCE

47

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

Political violence hit the country in decades. The shortcomings and consequences persist into
Today and deepen structural gaps, injustice and exclusion at the expense of broader
sectors, mainly rural population commoner, native peoples, native and
Indians of our mountains and jungle of Peru. So we express our full support for the report
end of the Commission of Truth and National Reconciliation.
Two million people have been affected by the armed conflict in the territory
national, 70% of which come from rural and indigenous villager in extreme poverty.
There are about 1,146 million affected people in 2,798 rural communities in 14
departments. Integrally violence disrupted life in these towns as limiting them
actors of their own personal and social development.
Faced with this situation we propose:











Full compensation of victims of political violence, which will be fulfilled without
objection or request for clarification to the judgments issued by the Court;
Human rights require the Peruvian State to compensate the victims and families of
them as a result of internal war, without distinction of religion, language, race, sex or dye
politician repaired.
Create a national fund for these repairs with resources from the public treasury, the competition
the private sector and international cooperation.
Semi establish voluntary civil service in the affected communities as alternative
graduation for college students as part of a comprehensive plan
repairs.
Implement the institutional reforms recommended in the report of the Commission
Truth and National Reconciliation, in particular the system of National Security and Defense
and Internal Order and the System of Justice and Education.
Appoint a high commissioner for peace in the pacification of the affected areas
lags in domestic political violence with the support of a Multisectoral Commission and the
establishment of decentralized committees for peace and development.
Organize literacy brigades communities of high involvement.

The eradication and prevention of new expressions of political and social violence and construction
a culture of peace are still pending tasks to ensure that such events are not repeated and
affirming democracy and sustainable development. In this perspective we propose:








Recognize the heroism, dedication, sacrifice and contribution of men and women in civilian and military
the resolution of the armed conflict and the restoration of democracy.
Make institutional reforms recommended by the TRC, including system
security and national defense and internal order, and the justice system and education.
The thorough investigation, the prosecution of cases of human rights violation,
exemplary punishment of civilians, police and military officials in strict correspondence
the established responsibilities.
The appointment of a High Commissioner for Peace in charge of the pacification of areas
lags affected by political violence with the support of a multisectoral commission and
the establishment of decentralized committees for peace and development.
Organization literacy brigades in communities of high involvement.

According to the CVR, the reconciliation is understood as a process of restoration and new
ties among Peruvians, destroyed and / or damaged by the outbreak of political violence.
This reconciliation is built and strengthened in establishing the truth that explains the
facts and their causes and consequences, justice, inclusion and repairing the damage and
sequelae.

48

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

So the state must complete respect for human rights, and be able to ensure the
national and public security in the context of a culture of peace.
To this end, a highly specialized and permanent state entity will be consolidated, with
role as the governing and regulatory body, which is responsible for the policies and actions of the state in
areas of peace, national reconciliation and reparation.

49

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016
2.8.

GANA PERU

REFORM OF DEFENSE AND NATIONAL SECURITY

Since the late twentieth century, Latin American countries have been rethinking the concepts of
security and defense. A notion linked exclusively to the territorial integrity of the nation,
integrity guaranteed by the Armed Forces, is evolving into a concept more
complex, which includes threats very different nature of the external military strike against
own territory. Today it is included in the concept of security threats or risks
environmental, international crime, drug trafficking, terrorism and even the migratory pressure,
that must be faced not only by armed force but by the entire state. And it is within
This modern stage of comprehensive safety aspects of national defense stop
be all and become an integral part of security in a country. This staking
concepts necessarily lead to changes in the institutions that guarantee the defense of a
country, changes that must distinguish two key aspects: determining capabilities
public address defense policy and the role that civil society demands of his Force
Armada in a democratic context.
2.8.1. Political and administrative reform of the defense sector
This proposal aims to set a process of transformation of the defense sector according
two internal reforms, important components of this process, which can and should
performed simultaneously: political reform in the sector and a professional technical reform
call military reform.
By sector reform defense policy we consider that process of structural changes and
policy seeking to institutionalize the sector by strengthening the Ministry of
Defense as the lead agency for defense policy at home with the premise of driving
national civil defense policy.
In that sense it is necessary to say that this process of political reform, which has made progress and
setbacks over the last decade, has three aspects: strengthening model
civilian leadership of national defense; establishment of a system of political control
sector actions, and the involvement of civil society in a policy proposal
defense of the XXI century.

Driving model of national defense in a democracy:
This axis of reform raises the need for a model of civil conduction of defense
in which national political authority to define, manage and supervise the management of the sector
Defense. In the stage of democratic transition and consolidation we live we are of utmost
important civil management and the respective control of society on issues related to the
defense policy.
This axis raises:
•

Strengthening the Ministry of Defense
A Ministry of Defense under this democratic conception has to fulfill purposes, between
they:
to. Build relations of power between democratically elected civilian and Strength
Armada. The Ministry of Defence is the vehicle that institutionalizes the relationship between the
civil power and the military command. That is, through the Ministry of Defense civilian power

50

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

legitimate and democratically elected exercises command and control over military structure
of a country.
b. Defining and distributing responsibility between civilian and military, maximizing efficiency
use of the armed forces. This means that the political leadership assumes the
decisions highest level of national defense and the military instrument runs with
effectiveness such decisions. Especially when these become political decisions to grant
different from the traditional missions of armed force.
c.

Maximize the efficient use of resources for the sector. In this regard, the
Ministry of Defense national defense managed to ensure adequate
transparency in actions and accountability of public officials,
civilian and military professionals who implement programs and plans to achieve them.

For this you need:
•

•

Strengthen the position of deputy ministers as minister channels into operation
of the armed forces. It is necessary to strengthen institutional management capabilities
against the armed forces through the incorporation of joint procedures
binding. The presence of civilian bureaucracy elite as is also required
top-level military personnel.
New regulatory framework
A new model driving undoubtedly requires a new regulatory framework
I support and give legal force and legitimacy in the society which it serves. In that
we sense:
to. New and expanded functions and powers to strengthen his ministerial office
leadership and leadership in the sector; new organizational structure of the ministry
to eliminate overlapping functions and allow greater management capabilities to
sector; strengthening control issues as a key aspect in the process of
reform of the defense sector, and accuracy and extending powers Command
Joint Armed Forces.
It requires deeper capabilities and the deputy ministers in the areas of
competence of the General Inspectorate of the Ministry of Defense. Finally incorporate and / or
deepen planning capabilities.
b. Regulatory rules on participation of the armed forces on internal order and
natural disaster scenarios and defense of natural resources.

•

Strengthening controls
This strengthening of controls allow the minister's office have on hand a
more direct the actions of the armed forces, supervision through research
Direct conducted by the inspectorate sector. It is necessary to strengthen their work more
specialized military and civilian personnel.

•

Transparency - administrative reform

51

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

One of the main aspects of the process of political reform is to establish a
process of administrative reform of the defense sector based on transparency and accountability
accountability to citizens.
•

Education: Human rights and democratic values
It is necessary to strengthen the management capacity of the Education Ministry
Competition on defense giving commands or addresses education institutes
military. A new profile of military personnel is required at all hierarchical classes.
Also curriculum that supports these profiles must be crossed by approaches
multiculturalism, gender, human rights and democratic values.

Political control over the actions of the defense sector
Political control of the national Parliament's actions and policy decisions
defense is key to achieving efficiency, legality and legitimacy, while determining the
necessary corrections raised in defense policy.
The judiciary has a responsibility, in accordance with the Constitution, to exercise, through
its hierarchical organs, the administration of justice in the country. Among the guiding principles of this
we have the jurisdictional function of unity and exclusivity, but that is an exception
constitutional in military and arbitral jurisdiction. It is this exception that supports the
existence of a "quasi-independent" military courts and that has raised questions by
important sectors of public opinion.
Also an important consideration in the proper administration of justice by the Power
Judicial is related to the prosecution of rape cases attributed to human rights
military and police. Remember that the Constitution provides that all
citizens are equal before the law. In that sense it will be convenient setting
special procedures to try soldiers accused of alleged violations
Human rights according to their status officials.

Military reform
There are two central aspects in this process of military reform is necessary to indicate:
•

Establishment of a new military doctrine
Since the late twentieth century, new military doctrines began to consider
joint participation of the various components of military power of a nation.
The new military doctrine, which should plan for capacity, will result
a new structure or design of force under two dimensions: quantitative dimension and
qualitative. Quantitatively establish the organization structure and distribution
space military means associated with the concept of their specific jobs in response to
a mission given.
Furthermore, the qualitative dimension is now the added value which has the force
to respond to threats and to meet the objectives of defense raised.
Responds to aspects of efficiency and level of preparation and training; training
military; level of readiness treated as actual response time and cash to a
aggression, among others.

52

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

This dimension of the new military doctrine should focus it on two aspects: a) Operate
set and b) Interoperability.
•

Strengthening the fight against corruption
A central aspect of a new military organization is certainly one that breaks with his
nefarious past of corruption and betrayal. However this is the variable in the least
progress has been made in military institutions. Learned and practices persist
apprehended last decade have not been banished. Profile cases of corruption
They continue without penalty and that generates discomfort within the military deep
contempt of citizenship by the military institutes.

•

Restructuring of the armed forces (Armed Forces smaller. New territorial distribution)
It requires a study that focuses on the level of readiness of the force; ie in
the response time of the State to address the presence of traditional threats or
the so-called new threats to our security. The premise is to have two or three
cores effective response which we call Rapid Reaction Force.

Other administrative measures to improve the efficiency of the defense in the context of the policy
National Security General
•

•

We proceed to updating the White Paper on National Defence, taking into
that the new concept of sovereignty refers not only to the care of the borders or
defense of territory, territorial waters or airspace, but also to defend their resources
natural, biodiversity, heritage, culture, history, because the problems of the future
the region and the world are, in particular energy resources, freshwater,
biodiversity and the environment.
from





Review and modify the contents of the System of National Security and Defence, and
its components:
The concept of defense
The intelligence system
The National System of Civil Defense
Ministries, government agencies and regional governments.

•

We review the composition of the National Security Council, the governing body of the System
National Security and Defense, and the possibility of including the Ministry of be evaluated
Education, given that, according to law, education on security and defense
National is compulsory at all levels and modalities of the education system in Peru.

•

We will review the powers that correspond to the National Security Council,
particularly as related to budgetary requirements are based on
the real strategic needs and procurement of military equipment character
are the most appropriate strategic and respect the standardization of equipment with
in order to recover the operational capacity of the armed forces.

•

The modernization and development of decentralized agencies will be encouraged
following:




Military Geographical Institute (IGN)
National Service of Meteorology and Hydrology (SENAMHI)
National Aerophotographic (SAN) Service

53

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016



GANA PERU

National School of the Merchant Marine (ENAMM)
National Commission for Aerospace Research and Development (CONIDA)

In these entities will be provided with technology to propel the levels
competitiveness of the national and international markets.
They




should encourage and strengthen businesses:
Navy Industrial Service (SIMA S. A.)
Aviation industry Peru (PERU SA INDAER)
Army Ammunition Factory (FAME)

2.8.2. Drug trafficking and terrorism
It is no coincidence that lags walkers have been located precisely in the areas where the
drug trafficking abounds: the Alto Huallaga and VRAE. On the one hand, the increasing breakdown of SL
after the capture of Abimael Guzman in 1992, the resignation of its draft power and
inability to provide an alternative leadership to continue the ideological project,
Original fundamentalist and terrorist, raised by those who still remained in arms,
explain why lags walkers have accommodated the dynamics that violentista
drug trafficking generates. If until recently still arguing about whether walkers lags
They constituted a subversive and terrorist threat locally because they were dismissed as
threat to the national level, now -for mouth of military commanders themselves VRAE-
qualify as members of the family clan of "Quispe Palomino brothers," part of the
complex structure of drug trafficking and its links to violence. In short, the thing is so
defined: if discarded to lag, drug trafficking continues; but if the drug is removed, the
lags may not survive. The main problem is to combat drug trafficking.
Drug trafficking in our country and has become a threat to national security. Peru
It is the leading exporter of cocaine in the world. This is only possible because the
corruption corrodes the industry favors the farmers 'diggers' forces
security, judges and prosecutors, authorities and prison officers, customs and
port authorities, producers and importers of chemical inputs, the authorities
policies from the local to the highest dignitaries of the nation.
Drugs and drug trafficking are a complex issue that deserves priority attention and
Peruvian society, for its treatment affects the economy, foreign affairs,
democratic institutions, public health, rural development in the forest and mountains, the order
public and national security. In the last five years, Peru has become a
leading global provider of cocaine (56,100 ha) and cocaine (302 tons) but also
important sectors of our society and institutions have been permeated by the economy and
money from this illegal activity, as well as associated with organized crime cartels
traffickers.
An estimated 70,000 peasants (280,000 with their families), subordinate to this activity and
Between 50,000 and 100,000 drug addicts in our cities. It is estimated between US $ 1,500 and
US $ 2.000 million entrants in respect of money laundering. Approximately
exported 280 tons of cocaine. The value of this cocaine FOB prices (for example at the border, in
international or at sea off our coasts) airport is US $ 4,000 per kilo, ie they are
US $ 1.120 million which will remain in our country; the value of the cocaine prices
consumer abroad reaches 25 billion dollars. The domestic value of
100,000 tons of coke used to $ 3 per kilo, equivalent to US $ 300 million distributed
between producers and collectors. The value of chemical inputs is approximately US $

54

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

60 million. And the value of labor (from the digger to those working in the
laboratories for the processing of cocaine, not farmers) is estimated at US $ 23 million.
Thus, the family clans local and national firms in the service of international drug trafficking
left with a gross income of US $ 737 million. To estimate the net income should be
deduct spending on corruption. How much? An estimated 15-30%. That is, between
US $ 110-220 million. That is, about drug costs to corrupt
authorities must exceed 150 million.
Neither Fujimori nor the democratic transition through the 1993 Constitution or agreement
National 2002, or another adopted strategy, been able to change this delicate situation.
Unfortunately, partial and isolated responses have recharged our system work
criminal, distracting the police (45% of the detainees are not criminals users)
overloading the judicial system and causing overcrowding in our prisons.
It is necessary that the next government take effective, sound public policies (realistic)
measurable, verifiable, respectful of human rights autonomous (not dependent
cooperation of a country), sustainable, to distance themselves from the misconceptions of
prohibition / legalization, to address the causes and not just the effects of the drug phenomenon
and drug trafficking.
Policy proposals:

Foreign policy
(I)

Recover autonomy in the implementation of international obligations, on the basis of
respect for international human rights and the principle of non-interference in
domestic affairs of States.
(Ii) Redefine in coordination with members of UNASUR, the principle of accountability
shared regarding northern countries to do their part in funding
development programs, prevention and treatment and interdiction, as appropriate.

Security and armed forces
(I)

(Ii)

Separate the strategy of confronting the remnants of the subversion of politics
narcotics, always under civilian leadership, a strategy that favors intelligence and
technology, and the creation of the Presidential Office of the High Commissioner for Peace and
Development on the main stages at the confluence of the phenomenon of subversion and
drug trafficking.
Generate reintegration policies and specific partnerships with rural social movements and
urban of the mountains and the high jungle (cocaleros, diggers, cargachos) to integrate a
Rule of law, involve them in public policies and distance them from Groups
violent.

Public safety, public order and fight against organized crime
(I)

Redesigning an autonomous policy on drug interdiction which is based on the
persecution, identifying and dismantling firms and national cartels based
and a guarantor of last resort, criminal law respectful of individual freedom
due process, not in the pursuit of the most vulnerable links (producers,
and microcomercializadores users). It should eliminate the current inefficient monopoly and ENACO
foster a new registration of producers and a new coca law.

55

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

(Ii) Identify and produce the necessary legal and institutional changes to ensure level
sensible policy of interdiction and not subject to outside interests, that does not cause major
damage, based on social control of coca and not compulsory eradication.

Rural development
(I)

Should produce profound changes in the conduct of government policies in the jungle
high, especially those that support the so-called alternative rural development,
ensure the participation of producers in determining proposals
alternative development for coca each basin, which merge into viable alternatives,
regional markets and agricultural exports and agroforestry, where permitted by
commercial terms and do not degrade the environment.

Health and Education
(I)

The State should produce sectoral policies at local, regional and national levels, which
meet in order to deter the abuse of substances hazardous to health, both
social as illegal; scientific information should be permanently
updated for decision-making.
(Ii) The State shall exercise proper control of rehabilitation and treatment
addiction problems generated; under no circumstances should be used repressive measures
to address public health problems.

56

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

2.9.
to)

GANA PERU

MEDIA FOR DEMOCRACY CITIZEN
Quick diagnosis.

In the country, the media have traditionally been controlled by a few
family and the State during the twentieth century groups. The first big change in this area was in
1968. It was initially announced that he would deliver to the organized social sectors, but in the
practice were confiscated to them at the service of the military government.
This experiment failed and the first measure of the democratic government of Belaunde in 1980 was
return the confiscated means to their former owners. In this context, new actors
politicians made their appearance in command of the media. Freedom, pluralism and
competitiveness of the media come into serious question in the nineties with the regime
authoritarian Fujimori headed by Vladimiro Montesinos, who came to buy online
publisher of many of the major print and broadcast media.
The 2001 democratic transition was not used by the governments of Paniagua and Toledo
to review the concessions transmission frequency to those entrepreneurs and radio
Peruvian television that became a public service in a particular service. There were then
broad public support time to withdraw licenses to those operators who
They marred this service. The Radio and Television Act (LRTV) was adopted without in July 2004
mechanisms and institutions that could cope with the trend toward be established
poor concentration and pluralism. This law created the Advisory Council of Radio and Television
(CONCORTV), an independent advisory body to produce interesting information,
but it has no power to regulate the development of the media.
At present, the media are owned by a few hands (including
property for various types of media), which has set up a quasi media oligopoly
violates the right to freedom of expression and adequate information for the
population.
b)

Policy proposals.


Elaboration of a law on audiovisual communication to establish a distribution
equitable and plural media between different forms of ownership (private, public and
social). The aim is to incorporate the different perspectives of organizations
civil society, to ensure the freedom and pluralism of information and opinion, and recover
public service nature of the mass media.

 This law establishes the creation of a public council, with the presence of the
civil society will evaluate the radio spectrum concessions
including radio and digital television. In this regard, it is extremely important
review as regards the recent Argentine model.
 This law constitute regulatory mechanisms to expanding corporations
operating various types of media. At this point, it necessarily requires the participation
Ministry of Transport and Communications (MTC).
 plural and equitable distribution of digital frequencies will be ensured.
 Ensure that the media is at the service of democracy.

57

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

Chapter 3

GANA PERU

Build a new
development model:
The national economy
Market

The current Peruvian economy mainly faces the following structural problems:
to. Social inequality, inadequate from employment and income, creating
precarious living conditions of the vast majority of the population.
b. The primary export pattern which limits self-sustaining growth in the long term,
by the effect of commodity cycles are part of our experience
historic.
c. The sectoral and intersectoral coordination of production and spatial connectivity are weak or
nonexistent, and it is virtually no relationship between industry and agriculture in the mountains and
from the jungle.
d. Infrastructure and road network connecting the economy with geography and demography
It is insufficient to create new domestic markets and the expansion of
existing.
These problems have not been resolved with the neoliberal policies that favor investment in
traditional primary sectors, and neglected ecology and domestic markets
industry, agribusiness and agricultural production.
So we must end the denationalizing and exclusionary neoliberal model. It is the model
It has reprimarizado our economy that has become more dependent on capital and
international market, socially fractured nation to establish ourselves in preventing community
national policy, which expelled its young to emigration and broke the possibilities
social development of our people. The system that took away decency precarious employment and made their
income. Which it reduced the authority of the state and the nation weakened by excluding and marginalizing economic and
socially entire populations of the coast, mountains and jungle of the benefits of a grotesque
"Blast" that never comes from the tables of the rich. And it is the system, making us poorer
not only economically but also politically and culturally, we inserted the economy and finance
international with a dependent and submissive role.

58

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

This situation has to change, to return to the Peruvian nation and their children's feelings
self-esteem and dignity of free men.
3.1.

LONG-TERM GOAL AND DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY

3.1.1. LONG-TERM GOAL
Our dream is to build a country for all with equal rights and duties, made from producers
and modern consumers with equal opportunities. A country without racism and social inequality
that separates us, a country with political stability, rule-based austerity exercise
the civil service.
A country where children and youth are healthy, nourished, healthy, educated and happy, having
access to employment and a fair income. Where women are not harassed or discriminated against
their gender, that our seniors live their years with decency and dignity, where
disabled Peruvians find insertion space and affection.
All this means building a nation looking for economic, social and geographical integration of the country;
also it means creating a national culture that respects the racial and ethno-cultural diversity,
promotes multiculturalism and plurality. But building this nation, of a community
national policy, it can not be done without democracy.
We build, therefore, a strong, representative and participatory democracy, with presence
State in poor and disjointed areas; to strengthen citizen participation in the
decision-making and the exercise of power; to promote the political party system; than
fight corruption, and promote full respect and full exercise of rights
human for all Peruvians.
3.1.2. DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY: BUILDING AN ECONOMY
NATIONAL MARKET
Since the economy, nation-building is accomplished through the development of a
National market economy open to the world, to connect and integrate the excluded people and
forgotten coast, highlands and jungle, and that respects the racial and ethno-cultural diversity by encouraging
multiculturalism and plurality.
In Peru there are supporters of the neoliberal economic model that consider their critics
enemies of the market. They are the ones who confuse our proposed nationalization
economic and strategic activities nationalization.
Our development strategy is contrary to the neoliberal model because this, as applied
in Peru, developing a denationalizing economic circuit. Suffice to note that the fall of the
growth rate of 9.8% in 2008 to 0.9% in 2009 reveals the disconnection of our economy
with their domestic markets or its strong dependence what happens in the international market.
This is history, but does not seem enough. Why then is denationalizing?
First, because the neoliberal model applied exporter version here (which is different from the
version exporting countries of Asia) does not consider the development of domestic markets.
Neglects domestic demand factors and emphasizes state minimalism in
consistent with the neoclassical theory of international trade and economic growth. For

59

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

this theory, the self-regulating market is efficient, the market distortions are caused
by state intervention and countries trade because they have different specializations
They benefit from trade if each produces and sells what he can do relatively better.
Second, because, unlike what happened in Asian countries, orients the development out
domestic markets, creating instead enclaves that have no connections with the economy
Internal and does not take into account the interests of the national community of the mountains and the jungle region.
Third, because its focus on exports, given the conditions that part,
ventajistas generates behaviors in international competition by eliminating the
workers' rights, maintenance of stagnant real wages, imposing
tax stability contracts that harm national sovereignty, and neglect costs
environmental exploitation of primary resources. Examples of such problems
we have them in Cocachacra, Arequipa; in Majaz, Piura; in Bagua, Amazonas, or La Oroya, Junin.
On the other hand, non-traditional exports to this neoliberal model encourages base their
competitiveness cheap labor and unskilled.
Finally because it favors foreign investment in the primary export activity
sold in foreign markets, rather than promote the growth of domestic demand in
line with a diversified productive supply increase. The neoliberal export model
not allowed to take internally the fruits of technical progress or increases
productivity in the national interest.
To develop the country strategy then propose building an economy
national market. You have to nationalize our economy. This means focusing development
country in expanding domestic markets that already exist and creating new ones; is
ie, develop a national market economy. This does not mean autarky or
statism. It means basing competitiveness gains in productivity gains rather
absolute natural and cheap cholo advantages. The competitive advantages are achieved by connecting the
economy geography and demography, diversifying the productive base for these
advantages with decreasing returns to scale unit costs favoring trade
IIT. But it also means institutionalizing policies and income generation
domestic demand to sustain growth.
You have to build industry, agribusiness and agricultural production capacity (supply), and
simultaneously developing domestic demand to ensure the use of that capacity. In addition,
domestic demand that is sustained over time stimulates new investments to expand and
diversify production capacity. From this perspective, exports are necessary to
resolve imports and sustain economic growth. In this case, the
competitiveness gains are guaranteed by the expansion of domestic markets.
And how does a national market economy is built? First, when it facilitates the development
of domestic entrepreneurship and domestic markets; second, when developed
political institutions and spaces to generate stably internal demand and income,
linking the short to long term; and third, a new social contract that ensures
republican democracy.
to. The creation of domestic entrepreneurship and domestic markets.
Private investment is one of the most important determinants of growth in a
market economy. Moreover, it is impossible to have an employer who does not believe in the
importance of legal and political stability has on private investment decisions. But,

60

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

certainly, stability does not exhaust the explanation of the dynamics of this investment. She is part of
institutional-legal context of a market economy, assumed since when analyzed
economic decisions of private agents. So are other restrictions
Private investment in economies like ours, are particularly important.
There are two types of private investment: production aimed at foreign markets and targeted
production for the domestic market. The first, in our country is basically
foreign, does not, in general, problems of financing and profitability is almost always
ensured by the existence of markets. Consider, for example, foreign investment directed
commodity production, although there are in the production of services for market
Internal whose offer, uncompetitive, have a claim secured by the limited access
substitution. Not so with private investment, not foreign, aimed at production
for the domestic market. The creation of national entrepreneurship is associated with the
expansion of the national or local private investment. But this investment faces the three
restrictions. First, the size and diversity of domestic markets factor influencing
profitability; second, the existence of financing medium and long term; and in
Third, the existence of human capital and technology.
We have to face, then these restrictions on local or national private investment
focus circuit demand and income generation in the country, ie,
to nationalize the economy and make it less dependent on international markets.
b. Political institutions and spaces to generate demand and national circuit
income.

Linking policies for macroeconomic stability with growth.
But the structural change that requires removing constraints facing private investment
national or local, which is the decisive step to start the centering circuit and demand
income within the national territory, can not be separated from demand management
short term. This has to do with the relationship of stabilization and economic growth, or
Linking short and long term.
It is about connecting the management of aggregate demand during the growth cycle and
structural transformations. Important historical processes of structural change
industrialist failed for short-term problems.
Market economies are not intrinsically stable or tend automatically to the full
employment. In the core countries, the government, according to the Keynesian legacy, it is responsible for
face recessions through policies, monetary and fiscal expansionary. For this to happen
also in countries like ours must be built, as did the countries of the center,
national circuit of demand and income generation.
The necessary condition to build this circuit is to remove the restrictions that prevent
domestic private investment to expand, creating demand and productive capacity far and wide
from the country. Cycle management (through macroeconomic policies) should be functional
This long-term goal.
There is consistency between our policies for macroeconomic stability in the proposals
previous chapter and the strategy of building the national market economy. For instance,
the capital market in soles facilitates financing of medium and long term investment,
but also improves the efficiency of monetary policy based on inflation targeting

61

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

with the interest rate as an instrument (Taylor rule). The deeper and liquid is this
market, greater competition in the financial market, which today dominates the oligopoly
banking. The regulatory framework of this market must be reformed for companies
small and medium production can issue debt.
The capital market in soles also contributes to the sustainability of fiscal policy. his
expansion is based on the development of the secondary market for sovereign debt in soles. East
Finally reduces the risks of public debt (foreign exchange and variable interest rates)
replacing external debt with domestic. The sovereign debt market also allows
enter the "golden rule" in the government: borrowing only to finance investment
public. So far linking the short and long term with reference to the investment, as
know, it is a factor creating demand and production capacity.
The current public spending does not create capacity but demand; Therefore, along with investment
Local private, it has to be part of the national circuit of demand and income generation. East
spending can not be, then, procyclical. There must be a countercyclical rule of law
fiscal responsibility and transparency, as proposed in the previous chapter, for the
are the only revenue fluctuating with the cycle. At the height accumulates funds
stabilization to deal with recessions.
Finally, in an open economy further action is needed to resolve the conflict between
short and long term. Financial openness and free capital mobility difficult
Management of the interest rate and the real exchange rate two important relative prices
influence the demand for private investment. Good management of the national economy,
Keynes said, it depends on the freedom to set an appropriate rate of interest without reference to
prevailing rates in the world. This means you have to control the flow
international capital and to ensure a stable and competitive real exchange rate, this
control must be accompanied by a rule of sterilized interventions on the market
exchange. This rule is part of our policy to macroeconomic stability.

Labor market, wages and demand generation.
The neoliberal model operates exporter repressed real wages without labor rights. Is
way to gain international competitiveness neglects increases productivity
associated with the expansion of domestic markets.
By contrast, the national market economy means better conditions of life and work.
Consequently, the demand generation circuit and income must also incorporate the
working market. You have to restore the minimum wage as a policy instrument and
introduce decent labor standards, the right to unionize and system
universal social protection. These institutions or distort the labor market nor are they
which reduce employment levels. They are absolutely necessary to develop a robust process
and stable demand generation within the country. The wage is a factor of demand and not
only a cost factor, such as financing, which would be considerably reduced with the development
capital market in soles.
From the classical Smith and Ricardo, the salary is part of distributive conflict. his
determination, therefore, has to do with economic and political power from the government
It gives content to public policy. The neoliberal model is based on an imbalance of power
that hurts workers, peasants and important part of the middle class. This is the other
denationalizing face of his character, and this has to change.

62

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

c. Why it is indispensable a new social contract.
Change neoliberal development strategy involving another building a
National market economy requires a new political and social environment, a new coalition
power, to ensure the construction of the nation and the practice of a republican democracy. Do not
no other way to focus circuit generating demand and income in the countryside
and for the benefit of the entire population.

The neoliberal social contract, corruption and lack of democracy.
The 1993 Constitution reduced the area of ​​public policy and led to the domination of capital
transnational and neoliberal ideology in the determination of these policies: they
He introduced the concept of subsidiarity which limits the role of the state in the economy, is eliminated
job security and other rights of workers, became the contract-law
tax stability contracts and domestic private investment was impaired by the disadvantages
on facing when placed on an equal footing with foreign investment.
With this Constitution, the state lost sovereignty and national interest took a back seat. He
government, in its eagerness to attract foreign investment, accepts the mining mite instead of applying a
windfall tax, waives the collection of royalties and promotes the denationalization
resources concessions affecting the national interest without rigorous impact studies
mining environmental investments.
On the other hand, neoliberalism corruption has become part of the current political system and
government. Low taxes and free market economic power groups is part of the
ideology of this system. Groups to evade their tax liability to
State, and the state shirks its responsibility to provide quality basic services to the
Most of the population. The people legitimizes their leaders by voting, but the elect
govern according to the economic interests of minorities who have not been chosen by the vote
popular. This corrupt government function mediates exercise democracy or reproduced without
nothing to prevent a form of undemocratic rule.
In short, the current Constitution and the corrupt form of government, which is functional to
neoliberalism, worked against a circuit demand within the country,
indispensable for the development of the national market economy.

New Constitution and the practice of a republican democracy.
Developing national market economy is essential for nation building, ie, one
territorialized political community, without exception. But this can not be done within the framework of the
Current Constitution. First, you need to recover, as Peruvians, our right
preferential to the management, operation and enjoyment of natural resources of the country, especially
energy sources. A nation that does not control its energy sources do not control your future. In
Second, the state must regain its role of development promoter, regulator
market economy and provider of basic social services (education, health, justice,
social, water and drain) safety, public policies that have universal scope. All this
It is a new social contract, ie a new constitution.
Priority to domestic private investment deal and a promoter of development and regulatory status
of the economy form the basis for institutionalizing national generating circuit
demand and income. Without tax reform to increase revenue and public spending
reduced (as a percentage of GDP), the State does not reach all, it is exclusive. No services

63

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

for basic social important part of the population and are providing low quality. For the
Therefore, apart from the performance requirements to be imposed on foreign investment, a new
Constitution will allow make a profound tax reform, increasing resources
State, to meet universal social programs.
With the new constitution will end the practice of government corruption as: establish guarantees
and balances, clear separation and full independence of the branches of government and organs
control, and a new regionalization, to have a state and a government that practice
republican democracy, accountable, transparent and drastic penalties for those who
They govern without respect for popular election and violating the Constitution.
The practice of republican democracy prevent coarctation of political power by the powers
factual and large, domestic and foreign economic groups that no one chooses,
nobody nobody controls and monitors. There will be explicit evaluation mechanisms and constitutional control
of rulers. Democracy is much more than a way of choosing leaders and
representatives of the people, will be an election system and way of ruling subject to the mandate
of the popular vote and the Constitution.

64

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016
3.2.

GANA PERU

Policies for macroeconomic stability

A fundamental requirement of the development strategy of a national market economy, which
underlying this plan is undoubtedly the macroeconomic stability, which holds power
purchasing of the people who live of their work and encourages investment. Strengthen the national currency and
promotes the nationalization of the economy (focus on the country circuit
demand generation and revenue) and the dollarization of the banking portfolio, heavy load
neoliberalism. So we keep prices down for the entry is not erode
people, a low average annual inflation of 2.5% and a stable and competitive real exchange rate,
to boost the export processing, by a central bank, independent and
autonomous, which will optimize the accumulation and management of our international reserves
to cope with adverse external shocks.
3.2.1

MONETARY AND EXCHANGE

There will be a regime of low inflation and exchange rate stability.
A low inflation rate based on an institutional framework of monetary policy goals
explicit inflation will average central value of 2.5% with a deviation of more or
least two points.
Inflation is among the lowest in the region and among the lowest in the world compared to
that of our major trading partners.
We will keep inflation at levels unprecedented in modern history.
The structure of relative prices generated by monetary stability, strengthen production
non-primary for the domestic and foreign markets.
This monetary stability institutional system comprising:









A Central Bank is autonomous and independent Reserve, both objective
like instrument, which bases its professional management and technical foundations (models
macroeconomic forecasting), transparency and accountability.
The definition of inflation targeting medium and long term.
The application of a rule reaction where the monetary authority
operating instrument is the policy interest rate in local currency.
A monetary Taylor rule, which incorporates the effects of the diversion of the
inflation relative to its target value; the gap between actual product and the product
potential and the change in agents' expectations; and dynamic factors
inertial and probabilistic evaluation of occurrence of the risk factors between
scenarios.
Managed floating exchange rate regime in the context of free movement
international capital, to maintain a stable and competitive exchange rate.
The BCR will use the various financial instruments to moderate the
volatility of the exchange rate (appreciation or significant currency depreciations)
through instruments such as sterilized intervention in market operations
open points by buying or selling foreign currency Certificate
nominal indexed deposits and certificates of deposits, among others.

The reduction in volatility ensures a stable, free and flexible exchange rate regime that contributes
the competitiveness of exports. Therefore, the BCRP regulate the operating limit portfolio

65

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

overseas investment of Pension Fund Administrators compatibly
with profitability, risk and security of the pension portfolio and market development
domestic capital.
3.2.2

POLICY accumulation of international reserves

An open and partially dollarized economy is protected from international fluctuations with
a level of reserves and a shift position that allows to face speculative attacks
against the national currency. International practices measuring an optimal level of reserves from
the relationship between the level of RIN and short-term debt in dollars. Included is often only
the short-term external debt, although you may also add current maturities
long-term debt. And the "more acidic option" is to include deposits in dollars
banking system.
Using this indicator, the ratio of net international reserves and debt
short-term dollars, including dollar deposits of the banking system, will always
greater than unity, above its critical level.
The reserve accumulation policy is fundamental to an open market economy
the risks facing international against adverse shocks.
3.2.3

FISCAL POLICY AND TAX EXPENSE

Fiscal policy will be countercyclical and automatic stabilizers. You have a history of
low fiscal deficit to ensure debt sustainability in the medium term and raise the rate
public investment to internationally comparable levels.
We further commit to responsible management of a state that aspire austere
fair. This is to maintain a fiscal policy to ensure that the deficit does not exceed 1% of GDP.
We give saving measures and increased income to ensure their sustainability.
We are going to undertake a comprehensive tax reform to increase the tax base and
percentage of revenue to an average of 18% of GDP in the next five years.
We give more weight to direct taxes to transform the unequal taxation bias
neoliberal favoring indirect taxation. So efficiency criteria will be introduced in the
and equity raising as tools for improving income distribution.
Fiscal decentralization will be the subject of an agreement between the central government and governments
subnational, for it firm and durable rules will be established.
Remove exemptions and special tax advantages. We will also review, in dialogue
with the parties, contracts tax and legal stability force in the framework of respect
law. No more tax stability agreements.
We will review regional and sectoral tax exemptions that do not meet their
goals. Incorporate incentives for reinvesting profits of productive enterprises,
as tax credits. We apply a tax to restore sobreutilidades
principle of distributive justice.

66

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

The pro-cyclical bias of fiscal policy will be neutralized, by amending the law of responsibility and
incorporating fiscal transparency and a countercyclical fiscal rule.
Public investment will be released from the contractionary pressures that occur when incomes
Prosecutors decline during the recessionary phase of the cycle.
Fiscal policy will ensure that the growth of external liabilities of the country remains within
sustainable limits. Contingent assets are accounted in the country projects
geological, mining, energy, forestry and, in general, those that express the real potential
the nation prepared using accrual accounting Public sector.
3.2.4

Reprofiling EXTERNAL PUBLIC DEBT

We will do an audit of public debt.
We advance in the reprofiling of debt to contribute to the sustainability of the
fiscal policy and budgetary investment to space. Modify the structure of
finance public spending, reducing debt exposure to market risks and
extending its duration, and to increase the participation of domestic debt in total this. So
ensure the sustainability of fiscal policy and public investment give more space.
Program oriented liability management will be implemented:





Decentralize services in the short-term debt (refinancing risk) with
operations to increase the half-life and duration of the debt.
Reduce debt exposure to fluctuations in exchange rates and interest rates
external (market risk).
Reduce debt in current value and present value.
Improve the credit standing of the country, which will reduce the cost of future financing.

To alleviate the debt service in the coming years will be operations:






Prepayment
Substitution of external debt with domestic
Bond swaps
Hedging of exchange rates and interest rates
Debt swaps for investment, with emphasis on environmental projects, education and
public infrastructure.

The development of domestic sovereign debt market will deepen which will modify the
current funding structure of financial expenditure and non-financial.
Strengthening the domestic government bond market in soles allow you to keep a profile of
indebtedness to acceptable risk levels, because participation will increase
domestic debt in total public debt to reduce their currency risks and rates
interest.
3.2.5

BUDGET AND QUALITY OF PUBLIC SPENDING

67

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

We modify the methodology for allocating budgetary resources, which maintains a character
inertial and incremental, since it is based on the structure of expenditure for previous years
then discuss the allocation of additional resources.
We will make a substantial improvement in the quality of public spending. Adequate priority needs
of the shares or allocations between different alternatives and actions to ensure the
access to basic services to the poorest. In addition, ex post assessments of implementation
budget will have the greatest impact on resource allocation decisions as follows
period.
To change this situation, we will adopt the following measures at different stages of
budgeting:
Programming and formulation:

Reducing the level of discretion, arbitrariness and inertia when assigned
budget ceilings.

Implement a multi-year supplementary budget to the macroeconomic framework
multi-year, with the advice and participation of civil society in both the central level,
regional and local levels.
Approval:




Strengthen professional teams of technical and financial assistance of the commission
Congressional Budget and retention to ensure continuity of criteria
fundamentals of budget preparation.
Apply the criterion of cost-benefit measurement and indicate the effects on
population impact of budget policy.

Implementation of the budget:

Assess the constraints facing the specifications in the execution of their
budgets and introduce significant improvements, particularly during processes
administrative.

Communicate to the public the most salient elements of implementation
budget to inform how the tax money is spent, which also
strengthen tax consciousness and culture.

Disseminate information about the origin of resources by source
funding levels evasion, progressivity and the concentration of the base and
tax structure for each level of government.
Assessment of the budget:

Post results of the evaluation of the budget and the criteria that will
feedback to the formulation and execution.

Systematize independent technical evaluation of the budget.

Annual accountability of the executive branch to Congress.

Agree specific political commitments to improve the allocation and execution
public spending as a result of budget evaluation.
Quality of public spending:

Universalize managing participatory budgets that allow prioritize
activities and projects involving people. These budgets strengthen
participatory democracy and democratic governance, and promote private investment
through the national voice of economic actors in the definition of priority projects.

Give greater representation to the participating agents and civil society
monitoring the process of participatory budgeting by supporting tables

68

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

local labor and technical networks to avoid discretionary decisions that alter the
previously concerted
3.2.6

TAX REFORM

The new tasks of the state and the structural revenue
The proposed constitutional change implies new economic, social and political roles
the state must meet. These include the management of macroeconomic policies and
growth, market regulation and provision of public goods, strengthening
democracy, universal social services of education, health, social security
population and implementing policies to overcome poverty.
These are permanent features whose efficient compliance requires: a) Qualified for
State government administration. b) institutional changes in the three areas of
government (central, general and regional). c) Definition of annual programs of provision of goods and
public services. All these changes and defining new roles presupposes that
Structural sufficient public revenues, ie, revenues do not vary with the economic cycle.
The current situation of the tax system
Taxes are collected precisely in order that the State complies timely and
its functions efficiently. Unfortunately what we have now is a deterioration in the
quality of public goods and services, an inefficiency in carrying out these functions
expressing in wasted resources, and the existence of a regressive tax system and
It maintains the structural revenue at very low levels.


The percentage of tax revenues (long-term or structural) from the central government,
also known as tax burden is approximately 13% of GDP, five points
below the average for Latin America. The average tax burden of countries
OECD is 35%. The tax burden amounted to 15.6% of GDP in 2008, but with the
crisis fell to 13.6%. The average tax burden will decrease, if no changes
system, with the enactment of the Free Trade Agreement with the United States
because significant part of the imports coming from that country credited with
zero tariffs. On the other hand, the general sales tax (IGV) represents over 70% of
total indirect taxes.
It is impossible that with the low level of tax burden can implement a good
fiscal stabilization fund to facilitate the implementation of countercyclical fiscal rule or rule
structural.



The structure of the tax burden is regressive. Indirect taxes during the long
period 1990 to 2008 represented on average 67.0% of total tax revenue and
nontax the central government, while direct taxes only accounted for 22.6%
of direct taxes. The remaining 10.4% were non-tax revenues.



Direct taxes are heavily influenced by the tax on business income
mining. This influence is cyclical. It increases during the expansion phase of the cycle. The
economic expansion of recent years was the result of growth of the economy
and the boom in world commodity prices. With the international crisis of 2008-2009,
when lower commodity prices, the tax burden was reduced from 15.6% to
13.6%.

69

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU



The high rate of evasion by the existence of many exemptions is another
characteristics of the tax system. According to some studies, when divided the
percentage of the revenue from the sales tax to GDP between this tax rate
is 19%, the quotient obtained (also known as the productivity of the
tax) is well below 50%. The explanation for this result
in the evasion linked to the high tax rate and the existence of
regional exemptions, whose complexity hinders its administration. Also avoidance
payment of income taxes in the fourth category.



Finally, the tax system is characterized by its low efficiency. One of the reasons
is the large number of taxes that hinder their administration. Eight taxes
finance functions of the central government and taxes that finance functions
governments locales.1

The content of the tax reform
So that the state can fulfill its functions and can be applied efficiently rule
countercyclical tax proposal, the objective of reform should be to raise the tax burden
place it in a first stage, between 18% and 20% of GDP. But the tax reform should
also contribute to the generation of a demand circuit and income centered within the
National territory. Economic fluctuations can not put the ongoing risk
fulfilling state functions. With these objectives tax reform should
comprise the following policy measures:


Raise the weight of direct taxes through: a) The increase in tax rate
distribution of profits of 4.1% to 5.6% to bring the income tax to 35%, 2
as it is the case in Chile. b) The increase in the estate tax (represents only
0.2% of GDP) through gradual adjustment of the value of rural property to take it to
market value. c) In the case of inheritance tax from a certain level which
fixation should be based on equity.



Review and eliminate through negotiations with the companies involved, agreements
tax stability to adapt to the new political, social and economic conditions
from the country. We propose to raise the rate of 2% extra tax stability to have a 5% or 7%.



Assess the feasibility of gradually reducing the rate of VAT to bring it closer to average
Latin America (14 to 15%) and increase productivity by reducing
Simultaneous (to disposal) of sectoral and regional exemptions.



Simplify the tax system by reducing the number of taxes. Four taxes for
central government (income, IGV, ISC and tariffs) and four local governments (property,
alcabala, vehicular, casinos and slot).

1

The taxes for the central government are: income (income taxes and taxes
Temporary to net assets), property (tax on financial transactions or ITF), goods and
services (VAT, excise tax or ISC, solidarity tax and homeless children
tax promotion and tourism development) and foreign trade (tariffs). The governments
regional are: property (property tax, municipal tax, vehicle tax and income tax
pleasure boats) and goods and services tax (games, entertainment tax
non-sporting public, gambling tax, tax on casino games and slot machines, and
Filming taxes). Taken from INDE Consultores.
2
According to INDE Consultores, in our country the distribution of profits are taxed at a rate of
4.1%, therefore, the combined rate reached 32.9% for distributed profits.

70

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU



Broaden the tax base by reducing tax evasion in tax income
people: improving the database of properties (land), professionals and shareholders
companies with intensive supervision programs in information crosschecks to achieve
Informal incorporation of the tax system. Also, broaden the tax base
vehicle tax, extending, in concert, the tax for vehicles with more than
three years old.



Strengthen tax administrations of local governments by developing
systems that enable the updating of land registers and land registries and reducing
significant delinquencies in payment of taxes.



Legally eliminate the granting of undue benefits, such as depreciation
and establish accelerated asset tax windfall activities
mining to finance social policies. On this last tax can be established
a rate of 40% to 45% on extraordinary profits as in other countries (including
they, Australia).



Evaluate, improve and extend the royalty system established for hydrocarbons
(Oil and gas) and mining resources.



Finally, progress in fiscal decentralization understood as the ability of decision
spending and tax collection by regional governments. He
strengthening property tax and broadening the tax base of vehicle tax
will allow these governments less dependent on central government transfers
They receive the FONCOMUN. These resources, as suggested by some experts, should
financing only to rural municipalities through budget transfers based
on an equal basis.

71

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016
3.3.

GANA PERU

INTERNAL MARKET DEVELOPMENT FOR INTEGRATION
NATION

3.3.1. INTERNAL MARKET EXPAND to industrialize the country
To industrialize the country must create and expand domestic markets. We propose a
industrialization based on the development of agriculture.
Our goal is to transform the current primary export pattern of economic growth. Y,
based on the development of agriculture, create productive circuits from our resources
natural to the highest degree of productive transformation to add value. Using
modern science and technology as productive factors. Decentralizing and the
productive by expanding and creating internal markets from their regions. Is
time open to the world from our own interests, and socially integrating the country
guaranteeing food security to our people.
We will therefore regain the leadership of generating value-added activities.
Develop and expand our domestic markets where we have to support the
growth for long periods. We must create stable jobs and improve
distribution of wealth.
Generating activities with added value and lead the growth anchored in markets
internal articulated, the competitive position of the economy will improve in the markets
worldwide to increase the weight of the non-traditional manufactured products and
agribusiness, in the total exports.
Our strategy of building a national market economy involves development
from within and at the same time out, it unfolds from inside but open to
world.
Globalization shifted the emphasis of economic policies from domestic markets to
external markets. Therefore the neoliberal condition the future of the country for signature
FTAs, foreign investment at the expense of local and national investment or
denationalization of demand generation circuit in revenue.
We, nationalists propose to increase the productivity and competitiveness of our
economy with the development of domestic markets, regional areas around the country
the participation of Peruvian companies in the industry, agribusiness, fisheries, mines and the
agriculture, the transformation of our raw materials to the finished product production
in factories to grow our markets and export.
Therefore, together with major agricultural and rural organizations, we consider it essential that
the parliamentary representation of the next congress decides on whether and origin
of trade agreements involving trade in agricultural and food products.
The neoliberals want to export our savings abroad, also determine the future of
country signing the FTA with the US
They say join the competition as a lever of development, but they forget that the objective more
Competition is important to increase productivity and that this objective does not have to
tied to neoliberal trade policies.

72

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

Increased productivity improves the standard of living of the population because it increases the
GDP per capita, lower unit costs of production and increases the ability to compete in
international markets.
If the productive apparatus not to geography and Peruvian society is integrated, without agricultural development,
without economic corridors and production circuits articulated from natural resources to
end industrialization, no free trade agreement will provide an opportunity for development
long term. When internal markets expand, thereby increasing the
specialization increases productivity and accelerate growth. And this geographic expansion
domestic market makes production grow orienting both the domestic market and the
external.
So our sea, our fields and mines, natural resources must be
transformed by the creative hand of Peruvian workers and their initiative and drive
entrepreneurs to be consumed or exported with the added value of our work.
We want a big project for productive development.
To expand and create domestic markets is required to connect the different geographical areas and
population of the country; ie investments in infrastructure (ports, warehouses needed,
roads, railways, sanitation, electricity and telecommunications and education) to stimulate
the emergence of new production lines, and increase demand for production
existing.
This is an effective and sustainable way to multiply employment and income, to reduce
poverty, improve the quality of life of the population, to enhance competitiveness and,
therefore starting a socially inclusive growth and development.
3.3.2. GROWTH OF DOMESTIC MARKETS
We want a steady pace of economic growth. That will promote growth
investment, especially private investment in generating value-added activities,
such as investment in economic circuits based on natural resources,
contribute to the consolidation of non-primary production, in particular the industry, as the basis
non-traditional exports and the long-term growth.
We want an inclusive growth. So the production, industrial development and
agroindustrial be supported by the expansion and increased domestic markets and in our
competitive participation in foreign markets.
Economic decentralization by the geographical expansion of domestic markets will increase
specialization and technical change and, therefore, productivity will increase. If the
productivity grows, the greater the ability of Peru to compete in international markets.
Thus, domestic private investment in industry and agribusiness, generator and gearbox
employment and income, will make it possible to consolidate a less concentrated growth style biased and
the primary-exporting integrate production and allow the world a better place.
We want a style that articulates growth small and medium enterprises in the
competitiveness clusters (clusters), which are aimed both at domestic market and exports not
Traditional. For the production of small and medium enterprises to expand and modernize,
You need to increase their investment. In short, you have markets, growing demand and
financing medium and long term.

73

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

We want to free the national investment market constraints, funding and
human capital and technology. These are constraints that do not affect foreign investment
that usually comes with its own funding and has international markets
insured (commodities) or use of captive domestic markets when it comes to investments
in high technology activities such as telephone, electricity, telecommunications. Nor they have
restriction of human capital and technology.

3.3.3. UNLOCK THE RESTRICTION OF INTERNAL MARKET, THAT IS, THE SIZE
LITTLE REDUCED AND DIVERSITY OF DOMESTIC MARKET FOR
NATIONAL INVESTMENT
It is well known that between economics and geography of the country there is no close connection. The
relations between agriculture and industry are weak because the geographical spaces and
provincial demographics were not incorporated into the process of industrialization. Growth
disjointed, with modern manufacturing activities that do not generate linkages with
agriculture, explains the marginalization of peasant masses and certainly its
technological backwardness. This disjointed economy makes it impossible to build new markets in their
vast geographic and demographic provincial areas. The market restriction is overcome
investment in economic and social infrastructure, and across the country.
No one will disagree that the possibilities of expanding existing markets and create
new ones are higher in a country with good road connections between its different areas
geographic and demographic. The decrease in the cost of transport makes possible new lines
production, while increasing the demand for existing production.
In our country, overcoming the disconnect between its economy and geography must be
result of investments in infrastructure (ports, airports, roads, railways,
sanitation, telecommunications, etc.), through concessions and public-private partnerships for
reduce production costs. Lack of infrastructure is limiting competitiveness. These investments
stimulate private productive investments. The reasons are obvious. The infrastructure
expand and improve the distribution of what already occurs and stimulate the generation of new
private productive activities. In other words, they have multiplier effects on employment,
income and productivity, because they open the possibility of extending existing markets and
create other at national level in the medium and long term. These investments managed by
State, broken and poor countries like ours are what ensure sustained
public order and the legal and political stability and to foster job generation
wealth.
We want to reconnect the Peruvian economy to its geography and demographics to break the
market restrictions and facilitate the expansion of domestic investment and the generation of
entrepreneurship. Disconnection comes from a tiny domestic market and little
Dynamic coexist in large areas of consumption, especially in the high Andean mountains and
lowlands, and the existence of untapped natural resources. Such market characteristics
limit internal domestic private investment in new productive activities. Besides high
logistics costs, the lack of means of transportation and other basic infrastructure in the mountains and
jungle of our country, inhibiting private investment.
This restriction faces a market that explains the preferential looking to markets
external and the gradual detachment from domestic markets.

74

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

Foreign private investment rather directs its investments towards producing materials
premiums have significant international markets, require an advanced type
technology and not always connected to the domestic economy.
Releasing the market restriction domestic private investment has involved the state as
responsible for investments in infrastructure. The infrastructure deficit is between 35%
and 40% of GDP. To expand existing markets and create new ones across the country,
good physical connectivity networks is required: roads, telecommunications, electricity and
fuel, developing Pacific ports, docks Callao, civil airports,
dairies, warehouses, water and sanitation, border crossings between its different geographical areas and
demographic. These investments in physical connectivity will be those that are required to cut logistics costs
transport, reduce the average cost and clear margins for productive reinvestment.
Thus the emergence of new circuits and stimulate production lines and higher
existing demand for productivity. So also it increases domestic private investment.
We want our economy to be able to diversify and expand their domestic markets,
generate endogenous technological change and sustained productivity increases. Thus, the
reduced costs per unit produced, Peru's competitiveness will grow and diversify.
Therefore the State, in partnership with the private, domestic and foreign capital, execute a
FIVE-YEAR PLAN infrastructure investment that will improve roads,
airports, ports, engineering and expansion of the agricultural frontier, modernization of
irrigation and local roads. We will use concessions and public-private partnerships with investment
public. Execute the investment plan in infrastructure with private participation, mixed,
domestic and foreign, public-private partnership (PPP) with high participation engineering
Peru, according to internationally accepted rules of performance.
To connect production to domestic markets will execute a plan to promote
investment in productive circuits and industrial transverse economic corridors,
agribusiness and agricultural. This decentralized the productive apparatus, will be created
new domestic markets and expand existing ones.
To that end he will strengthen and decentralize the National Public Investment System would create a
National Preinvestment Fund and PROINVERSIÓN be reorganized to encourage the participation of
regional and national governments private investors. It will also strengthen the
Center for Strategic Planning and build a national database for projects.
3.3.4. UNLOCK THE RESTRICTION OF FINANCING FOR LOCAL CURRENCY
NATIONAL INVESTMENT
This restriction is higher for medium and long periods when financial systems as the
our are dominated by bank intermediation. The solution is not short-term
because it means significantly expand the domestic capital market. The development of
This market accounts for orderly growth of the domestic public debt market in soles, to
fixed income and different periods: short, medium and long. The yield curve of this debt, the
will provide a benchmark for interest rates, encourage enterprises and private corporations
issue debt in the same currency.
In short, the financing constraint is resolved with a capital market in soles,
deep and liquid, sustained in a secondary market sovereign debt in soles, to different
deadlines, to generate referral fees for private issues.

75

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

We want to free domestic private investment of this funding restriction. Just a
small percentage of companies in the manufacturing sector has credits system
financial and many have no access to credit at the high rate of interest and / or high collateral demanded
in the case of small and micro enterprises. Some studies agree that companies
They consider the financing as one of the main constraints of the business environment in the
Peru. In addition, financial market banking intermediation and credit short prevails
term.
The provision of medium and long term is primarily aimed at large enterprises and groups
related. So we want to further develop the domestic capital market in soles
to release domestic private investment medium and long term, especially for
small and medium businesses.
Then they can make technical changes and scale to facilitate increases in productivity
job. They cease to be small and / or midsize companies that are born and die as such for
grow over time.
Besides market expansion of domestic public debt in soles, at fixed rates and average times and
long, it generates a yield curve that is an indispensable reference for the
private sector to issue debt in the same currency. With the yield curve as reference
interest rates for the private sector, contributing to the improvement of domestic production ahorroinversión relationship.
When an economy has a domestic capital market, there is surplus agents
(With excess liquidity) and deficit (need liquidity).
The former seek various non-monetary financial assets book value for your money
(Bonds, derivatives, commercial paper ...), while the latter, producers agents
large national private (deficit), small, medium and issuers are different
debt instruments to finance productive investment.
As investment is resulting from the consumption-saving decisions of agents, and the transition
from saving to investment is made through the capital market and give more liquidity
depth development of the capital market constitutes a fundamental task.
Investors have an alternative source of financing that would contribute to
improved domestic savings-investment relationship and the dollarization of production
banking portfolio.
Recent international financial crises have shown that open economies with markets
developed domestic capital are less vulnerable to capital movements
volatile.
For the above we want the state to contribute to the development of the capital market,
through the development of regulations and standards, clear and transparent, forming a curve
reference through the issuance of debt instruments to longer terms, and through its
interaction with financial institutions to stimulate private investment in the country:
 A Contraentrega payment mechanism (Delivery Versus Payment), which will eliminate the risk of
counterparty in transactions in the secondary market.
 A securities lending mechanism that will facilitate short selling, thereby increasing the
market liquidity.

76

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016





GANA PERU

Daily publication of a price vector as a reference for the market,
will allow agents to have daily references of bond prices. Facilitate,
Furthermore, the creation of reference portfolios and the valuation of assets and guarantees
homogeneously.
Gradual replacement of CDBCRP by sovereign bonds for monetary policy.

These activities should be part of a public initiative with active participation of the
Superintendency of Banking and Insurance, CONASEV, CIEPLAN and BCRP.
3.3.5. RESTRICTION OF HUMAN CAPITAL AND TECHNOLOGY
There is no correspondence between the vector composition availability of labor and
vector composition use. Graduates of the upper levels of the system
education and, in general, young people under 25 are increasingly trouble
get a job: they have no experience or qualifications and training. Meanwhile, demand for
unskilled workers declined in modern and high-tech sectors, while
required qualifications do not correspond with availabilities. The quality of higher education
and training does not meet the requirements of the economy. Therefore weak
correspondence between the compositions of the supply and demand of labor is expressed in
unemployment, underemployment and informality. Furthermore, the Peru spends practically no
investigation and development. The latest information indicates that this expenditure represents only
0.06% of GDP. Also, the linkages between industry and university programs
science and technology are very weak.
This restriction of human capital and technology is overcome to facilitate educational reform
mobility and adaptability of the workforce, with investment in research and development, and
institutional links with industry and business to define curriculum content
fluid make the transition to the labor market.
Special attention is the Peruvian university, which today is in deep crisis
characterized by proliferation and decreased on average quality. Neglect of
applied science research and its contribution is generally underemployment and informality
dramatic. The job search period of its graduates has risen above the year
half.
Then a university reform is essential that, first, reduce the number of
and integrate them into a system that takes into account our proposal
cross regionalization. Secondly, it requires a profound renewal of the
curriculum content and standardization to ensure the quality of vocational training.
Third, offers specialties should consider resource demands
humans with certain qualifications from the national productive apparatus.
Finally, reform must take into account the need to establish a system of
applied science research related to industrial and agricultural development, in which
all universities participating in the formulation of programs, short and medium term,
according to needs of national and regional development.

77

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

Chapter 4

GANA PERU

The strategic areas
New Model
developmental

The primary export pattern of growth and its sequel-the outsourcing of the economy have
exacerbated social and territorial inequalities: the economy has denationalized further and
It has increased the vulnerability and dependence of our country to the vagaries of
world economy.
This pattern is incompatible with the economic and territorial unity of the country. Fractures
Traditional Peru remain as the disconnect between the coast, mountains and jungle. Lima, with the
30% of the population accounts for 46% of GDP; this means that 53% of production
manufacturing, 47% of government services, 45.5% of the production industry
construction and 67% of other services are generated in the capital's environment. Is
territorial and geographical dislocation is observed at all levels and has consequences
negative indicators of poverty and malnutrition, as well as in the services deficit
social and access to culture.
This growth pattern is opposite to development, because, on one hand, maintains the disconnection
deep between the economy, territory and population, and on the other, it stresses the failure
internal effective demand, which in turn stems from the great inequalities in the
-a distribution of income and wealth concentration that prevent the profitable development
a national integrated market and coordinator of the territory.
The new development model is based on the creation of a national market economy,
based economic policies of the state to develop local and regional markets
inmates. If they develop and expand, it is possible to steadily increase productivity and,
Therefore, strengthening the competitiveness of the economy in international markets. This means,
among other things, the creation of economic corridors, productive circuits and industrialization,
which will allow us to use the full potential of the country to claim the work as the first
main source of wealth, which gives the opportunity to all Peruvian coast, mountains and jungle
to be part of the development of economic activity; and second, as a task
Fundamental to the transformation of our raw materials into finished products,
new added values ​​to grow our domestic markets and diversify
exports.
In addition, strategic activities, which are those that deal directly with the
development and defense of the country, they are being managed by foreign companies with a
dominant position in the market and especially directing successive governments to the path
mercantilism, to minimize the power of the Peruvian state and the subordination of
Peruvian foreign interests.

78

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

The strategic axes of this new development model are:

or nationalization of strategic activities, which means put at the service of the
essential requirements of the country those activities that deal directly with the
development and defense of the nation, through concerted public policies, not
nationalizations nor necessarily subservient to the interests of big
TNCs.

or infrastructure for the creation of domestic markets is a primary need for
the national market economy is efficient and reaches every corner of the country; by
That is why it is imperative to design a system to achieve this task, which he will have
called the core of infrastructure development.

or capital market development and democratization of credit, to enable the
medium and small companies to issue debt and fund investments in the medium and
long term in order to expand its production capacity and improve productivity.

or restitution of labor rights and employment policies and decent income. The new
development strategy involves better living and working conditions. When the source of
demand generation lies within the country and not in foreign markets,
indispensable minimum set of labor standards to generate both social welfare
to boost growth and development.

or competition policy and market regulation. The national market economy
based on the existence of competitive markets and the absence of abuse of power. The
Markets can not be self-regulated, freedom does not pose harm to consumers.
The state's role is essential for the functioning of the market does not harm
the consumers.

o Development of science, technology and innovation. The incorporation of knowledge in
economic activities is part of the process of wealth creation and value added
it is to progress. Not so with the primary export model and outsourced it
specializes in the extraction of raw materials and intensive labor activities not
qualified. The national market economy involves diversifying the production of goods and
services by incorporating more knowledge.

79

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016
4.1

GANA PERU

Nationalization strategic activities

Globalization and the policies implemented by the developed countries that have followed the
librettos more radical crises of neoliberalism did two years (2008-2009) and makes these countries
They were forced to take important decisions to be saved from a collapse that could have
the capitalist system led to a debacle.
Admitting that in the XXI century, the United States would be forced to nationalize banks, companies
insurance, automotive, etc. it would have been unthinkable a few years ago, and the paradox is
These interventions emissions huge amounts of money being held by the
PRC by buying Treasury bonds in the United States,
republic where a unique system of Communist Party and prevailing economic planning
centralized and compulsive.
Other countries were also forced to save their banks, financial and real estate sectors
grossly intervening in markets having held, some of them, even
two decades, the theory of free or self-regulating market.
What we have been taught all these facts? That today we face define what
paper fits you play the markets and the state. Amid the threat of total disaster emerges
someone we trust everyone, someone deposited all trust, someone
who resort to save all of our assets: the State. Is the state and not the market,
public and not private, who in this crisis arouses the hopes of all. It was the intervention
public policy defined by all who believe in democracy that has helped establish
economic system in which we live.
Therefore, against the dogmatic intransigence hegemonic during this time, according to which only
the free market and private work well, we propose as a development strategy building
a national market economy, to accept the role of the market, involves the application of
rules, controls and sovereignty required that only the State may provide for the welfare
all is reached.
In recent decades we have achieved growth, especially in the extractive industries
of our non-renewable natural resources, the surplus has failed to meet the
minimum requirements to significantly reduce poverty and inequality and achieve a
sustainable development in the country.
Still it has not developed a corporate culture that gives added value and make the most
natural resources that the country possesses. Therefore, our call to rethink policies
export of raw materials and the industrialization of the different sectors is promoted in
the country.
State enterprises have been devalued in our country, despite the existence in
Latin America a tendency to upgrade, as is the case of the priority sectors
Brazil (Petrobras, Eletrobras, BANDES), Colombia (Ecopetrol, ISA), Chile (ENAP Codelco Bank
State), just to mention some examples of state involvement as producers
in each of their countries.
The objective of recovering sovereignty and nationality of strategic activities in the Project
National market economy is to serve all Peruvians can enjoy in
the short term, health, education, electricity, water, roads that allow us to achieve the
quality of life and development that our citizens deserve.

80

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

In our country:
Neoliberal policies have allowed foreign companies usufruct of exploitation
our natural resources, as they were dedicated to the export of raw materials, with little
benefits for the country, thanks to contracts detrimental to the interests and national sovereignty,
allowed by the 1993 Constitution.
The economic power groups get quick profits at the expense of affect growth
sustainable country. Expensive public services by raising user fees; frustrate
decentralized regional development; stop the generation of decent jobs and hinder the improvement of
the quality of life of Peruvians. No effective policies in the field of education and
health, gone our Merchant Marine and has weakened our Armed Forces. He
State sovereignty has lost the enjoyment of our natural resources and has renounced his
role of development promoter, regulator of the economy and defender of civil rights.
Sovereignty over natural resources and strategic activities

The Peru as a nation does not exercise sovereignty over its natural resources and on its activities
strategic development, and the state has lost the management of public affairs, has
a vision of development of the country, does not act primarily in the areas of employment promotion,
health, education, security, public services and infrastructure, and strategic enterprises
State does not have the level of expertise required.
The strategic activities related to the energy industry has a strong technical component
and market decisions, but certainly its relationship with citizen security, defense
national, environmental conservation and sustainable economic growth in the long term.
Strategic state enterprises
In the world and especially in Latin America, countries entrench its state enterprises
They do as strategic and competitive business, as evidenced in policy
to the global economic crisis and the significant amount of state public companies
invest in Peru. Neoliberalism applied in Peru privatized and monopolized the economy and
natural resources, the privatization of strategic public companies, which emphasizes the
denationalization of the strategic activities of Peru.
The government has continued APRA Fujimori declaration inserted in the 1993 Constitution,
reducing public companies to subsidiarity, interpreting it as they can not do it
private capital wants to do, thereby undermining one of the strategic tools with
that the State has to guarantee the sovereignty of the nation and its development.
This government, in his continuation of neoliberalism has imposed an illegal policy framework
denationalizing privatization. Nullify the powers of public policy, sovereignty and the
SOEs reducing them to corporations to plunder and privatize.
Exclude state-owned enterprises be in possession of the goods domain and public use (in
ports, water management, airport services, electricity, etc.). The privatized, forcing
offer shares traded from a low of 20% to the total. Opens the total sale of the
SOEs through the 'capital contribution' to their business life private. She locks the race
public servants in them, to impose on the private representatives on their boards,
while designing Fonafe as privatized, subject to bureaucratic holding economic power. Smothers
State enterprises of regional and municipal governments.

81

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

It is cruel and paradoxical situation. It is paradoxical, because it is this government, feverish
privatism, which has several major investment projects in direct and close
relation to state companies in Latin America and the world (the state oil and
Petrobras, Ecopetrol, ENAP, Sonatrach, ISA, the port company Dubai Port, etc.). It is cruel, as
destroys one of the basic tools for the sovereignty and development.
For national development, it is necessary and strategic activities are defined,
assume the strengthening and modernization of competitive state-owned enterprises that have
National strategic, in the framework of a national market economy.
Currently there are a total of 36 state companies with majority state, the
which they are mostly in strategic sectors, high social and economic returns, and
decisive position in their areas. In the electricity sector, there are 17 (generation and distribution)
which they have 43% of electricity generation and 52% of electricity distribution; at
finance and insurance sector, there are four (Banco de la Nacion, Agrobanco Municipal boxes, etc.);
in the hydrocarbon sector, there are two (Petroperú and Perupetro), which are kept as column
spinal sector. In the Transport sector, there Enapu and Corpac, guiding its activities. In
Water sector there Sedapal and EPS provincial enterprises.
The economic power groups seek to appropriate this heritage of all Peruvians,
for fast and parasitic monopoly profits. They want to do at the expense of
sustainable growth, expensive and damaging public services, raise tariffs to scam
users, regional development thwart decentralized stop the generation of employment and
prevent the improvement of life for Peruvians.

Policy actions
Regain sovereignty over natural resources. You need to change the 1993 Constitution
to return to the Peruvian State the free availability of its resources to benefit all
Peru, building the infrastructure for this purpose and strengthening businesses
strategic state to be efficient and competitive.
Peru's development as a nation responsible for its activities and strategic infrastructure is
It will make from the role of logistics platform and value added in the new form of
industrialization of natural resources. It will be a territory of connection and transformation in
South relations with the Pacific Rim.
We will promote the Andean and South American integration, to regain the strategic positioning
for South America to the Pacific integrated, that neoliberalism has left. Is
necessary to state, in particular, the strategic alliance with Brazil, Bolivia, Ecuador and Colombia, and
overcome deep asymmetries with Chile to achieve an equitable relationship.
They dictate fundamental policies to deal with the climate change and the consequent
Water stress significantly modify the hydrology and water use systems of
last centuries, considering new policies to adapt as planting harvest water
watersheds, sustainable and non-polluting use of this resource, which is a scarce public good
and unmarketable.
We get the cross-continental leadership in the intermodal transport and
transforming logistics platform in the shaft of the Amazon; We affirm our integrative role
South American in the high plateau of Titicaca, which must relate to the integration
rail and transformative logistics platforms; Western Andes and the coast

82

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

Pacific Oriental Andes, the Amazon and Atlantic coast; and acting sovereignly in
competition between ports in the South Pacific settling intermodal transport systems
with national public ports and their connection areas with South America and the Asia Pacific.

Dinamizaremos the added value of the new industrialization of the economy of Peru and
macro-regions, which are key to public policies on science and technology, and
on infrastructure, water management, energy (oil, natural gas,
hydro, nuclear, geothermal, solar thermal, photovoltaic, wind, biomass and other renewables)
of intermodal transport routes (roads, ports, airports, railways), of
the information and communications technology (connectivity, spectrum, fiber
optical), and the corresponding regional urban systems and their interrelationships.
Electric power, oil, gas, essential services, water and sanitation,
commercial air space and ports are strategic activities at the service of development
the nation and the Peruvians.
The regime of strategic business activities, ie, nationalized, will be pluralistic.
They coexist in each case, private, public, joint ventures, associations and operators, and
establish rules to ensure the contribution of foreign-funded enterprises
development. The CEPLAN ensure state participation in the orientation of activities
and will oversee strategic planning and implementation of the strategic infrastructural core.
The Constitution enshrine corporate state involvement in the energy sector
it conditional on the free availability of energy resources to national interests.
The measures for the development of strategic activities are:

or change the energy matrix. National development requires a new energy matrix,

combining the generation of various sources (hydro, gas, nuclear, oil,
geothermal, solar, wind, biomass and other renewables, etc.), so that the country has
diverse, safe, accessible, clean and cheap energy. We intend to transform the current
national energy dependent on oil, high oil component
imported, and burning firewood. Course will open in the next few years we get
finish building a national energy matrix.
The energy policy objectives are:
•
•
•
•
•

•
•

Rationalize and optimize the efficient use of natural energy resources,
taking advantage of the added value.
Ensure energy supplies in the short, medium and long term.
Ensure long-term energy infrastructure that can meet the
domestic demand.
Enhance exploration to ensure adequate reserve replacement rate.
Having a new hiring in the exploitation and exploration
hydrocarbons, for which the State, through the company Petroperu hires
associated services of private companies, which receive remuneration for the
services provided, allowing the nation to regain ownership of the resource
without nationalizing companies, to establish clear agreements with the
Private investment associated.
Conserve and sustainably improve the environment with the use of the most
modern clean technologies that have the least environmental impact.
Consult the people involved and promote compliance with the Convention 169
ILO respect for indigenous territories.

83

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016
•

GANA PERU

Start the planning and execution of the infrastructure for power generation
nuclear

The fate of natural energy resources to ensure satisfaction Marketplace
national in the first instance, a permanent horizon reserve. In the case of gas
naturally it is considered a permanent horizon of 20 years not only for energy uses
gas but also for the requirements of industries and petrochemicals, in addition to its
employment for transportation, homes, industries and power generation.
We establish the statement of National strategic gas stocks, corresponding
from now on lots 88 and 56 of Camisea, to have an energy supply that
you can quickly and reliably serve any investment opportunity. We will promote
construction of pipeline networks and power lines to meet
throughout the country. We will promote the maximization of value added, so that
electricity is exported to neighboring countries; and fertilizers, methanol and ethylene all countries
of the world. Just when cover domestic demand, new gas discoveries
Natural could justify the export of surpluses. Petroperu will have a leading role in
these objectives.
the construction of hydropower will be promoted, strengthening and businesses to Electroperú
regional state power, and encouraging private, in a suitable balance
give priority to the projected least 50 domestic demand, and have a
proper balance with which it is intended for export. In investment agreements, as
that posed by Brazil, the company will Electroperú national counterpart, as it is for Brazil
the company Eletrobras. Studies of environmental impact will be more rigorously
not to endanger the natural capital of biodiversity or other strategic resources
like water and forests, as well as negative impacts from large
dams for hydroelectric generation is based on the sustainable development of resources
natural and, in particular, in close coordination and consultation with the people and authorities
local and regional.
Petroperu It will be established as an integrated company with a policy of oil exploitation
It is underpinned by the strictest environmental requirements and respective consultations to
populations. This effort requires a comprehensive and consistent call for investment
state and private companies, as partners in development, with legal stability,
transparency and reasonable profits from service contracts and / or consortia
Petroperu as a state enterprise.
It will be invested in renewable / alternative energy such as wind, solar thermal,
photovoltaic and geothermal, which should allow us to have power and energy
sufficient quantities using environmentally friendly energy.
The main institutional measures are:
• The CEPLAN, with broad participation, develop the National Plan of Sovereignty
Energy.
• strengthen and modernize Petroperu as an integrated state company,
competitive, internationalized, in charge of strategic areas.
• Adaptation of Perupetro to its purpose holder, recruitment and administration
resource, a qualified based on meritocracy directory.
• Strengthening Electroperú and the regional electricity companies.
• Strengthening the regulatory body OSINERGMIN.

84

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

• Restructuring of the governing bodies of the Ministry Energy and Mines regarding
energy, oil and electricity.

or electrical energy. Sources that generate electricity, the following shall be used
priority in its expansion and modernization: water, gas, oil, uranium, wind and solar, and
the work of the hydroelectric put Manseriche will begin to generate 7,500
megawatts, approximately, and installing transmission lines in accordance with
indicated in core infrastructure. Also, the construction of the plant will start
nuclear energy. Electroperú, generators and regional distributors have active
presence in the change of regional national matrix.

or Gas. It will be reviewed and the terms of the license agreements Lot 88 and 56 will be renegotiated as well
as the gas transport and distribution at national level and restricted export
while the same does not meet national needs. At the same time will start the
installation of pipelines to convey gas to the Peruvian nation, as stated
in core infrastructure. Also, an active program will be held at connections
pipeline networks to achieve in three years, three million residential users,
small and micro enterprises, which will be reduced to a fifth and a third,
respectively, current electricity costs.

or hydrocarbons. It will be reviewed and renegotiated the terms of the contracts of exploitation and
Petroperu oil exploration offered by investors. The Z2B lot, which was never
signed by the State with Petrotech Petrotech and other lots will recover to Petroperu
forming this company consortium operating in them. Renegotiate contracts
Operating taking into account the actions of control and audit made.
Petroperu advance to the vertical integration and the petrochemical screened at the turn
to a policy of energy sovereignty.

or Telecommunications. The state telecommunications company, in a consortium will be created with

the private sector, in order to provide an efficient, economical and comprehensive public service
at the national level and also for use in national defense service, will be built
ducts for fiber optics throughout the Peruvian nation, as stated in the Core
Infrastructure and infostructure be enhanced which is decisive for incorporation
innovations in productive and social processes, goods are transformed creating value
added and the quality of life of all people to rise.

or air transportation. The aviation industry will be reactivated and the national airline will be created,

to be a company incorporated public-private, public investment or to meet
priority needs of people inside the country, and yet be competitive
in the national and international market. Licensing rules to be reviewed
operation of the different operators of the Peruvian airspace.

or rail transport. The national railway construction industry will be created and will start
railways, according to as indicated in the core infrastructure, using the
raw material of the country while the national railway company is created, responsible for
administration, involving public-private investment or public.
Any private investment that is intended to improve transportation service will be supported
charging for rail center and reach speeds to optimize the
characteristics of railways, as well as the launch of electric trains
passengers nationwide.

85

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

or Sea Transport. Merchant Marine Shipping Industry and national reactivate.
Despite the enactment of the Law of the Reactivation and Promotion of National Merchant Marine and
the formulation of the National Plan of Port Development, Peru in practice account
with a real Merchant. Ships arriving to ports are of
foreign flag. The Ministry of Transport and Communications has so far not
proceeded to issue the regulations of the Act, whose benefits expected to
Cabotage is exclusively for national flag ships and, exceptionally, only six months
for ships flying foreign flags. It also establishes a reserve of 25% exclusive charge
for the Navy of Peru. Therefore we will issue the rules of law in
Regarding the Merchant Marine.

or airports and ports. The concession contracts will be reviewed and renegotiated the
management of airports and ports concession or sold and restore the
operation and administration of the same majority owned Peruvian State and
minority interest in the private sector. The armed forces will participate in aspects
related to national defense.
Faced with the recent privatization of the country's main ports,
We establish that the ownership and management of such companies are in the hands of
State participation of public or public-private investment.

or water and sanitation. It will be redesigned and rearranged water infrastructure with the introduction

concept of adaptation to climate change works for storage / reservoirs,
docks, dams, canals, waterworks, power plants, systems
drinking water to urban centers, etc., to reduce vulnerability and
increase the resistance of these systems to climate change and the various
requirements for all activities of society. Water is extremely important for
life of the population, livestock, agriculture, power generation and possibility
exploitation of minerals of all kinds.
Priority will be given to storage infrastructures, drainage and water use,
coping with climate change and its serious effect of national water stress. They
strengthen the Peruvian company Sedapal and EPS nationally for it to start the
construction of the necessary infrastructure of water supply and sanitation
basic, which address the cultural, social, economic, environmental and technological
individuals of each of the peoples of Peru and contribute to strengthening practices
Multicultural use, development and conservation of water and its sources.

or Forestry. The work of reforestation of degraded forest lands will be prioritized and
a sustainable policy at national level will be imposed for forest conservation
primary of the Amazon, in anticipation of the impact of climate change and development
national.

They will be strengthened and modernized strategic state enterprises, from the perspective of
pluralistic national sovereignty in the market economy, to meet public service
They allocated to them and at the same time, having the character of a competitive company in the
market. For which:
or
or

They administer the ownership of public property pertaining to its strategic activity.
They reinvested their profits to develop their activities under the national plan
development and sectoral policies, with autonomous decision of the shareholders' meetings and
directories.

86

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

or
or
or
or

GANA PERU

Fonafe function as state holding company.
They will be offered on the Stock Exchange shares as a financing option not required, and
unsold shares decision-making power in the directory.
They may form consortia, such as affiliates or subsidiaries, involving partners
private and public, local, regional and international.
The boards of SOEs should be composed of professionals with high
technical skills and moral character.

87

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016
4.2

GANA PERU

INFRASTRUCTURE FOR THE CREATION OF INTERNAL MARKET

The Peruvian nation continues to rely on primary export pattern of growth that is
inversely proportional to the development of a country that industrialized raw material. The
industrialization of the raw material, ie of our natural resources, allow, together with
the development of agriculture, the establishment of productive circuits, employment generation
sustainable and, therefore, the development of domestic markets, expanding existing and
creating new ones. This is the basis for building a national market economy
which will integrate the country, economically, socially and politically.
The history of development in industrialized countries shows that geographical integration,
economic and social development of peoples and nations that make up its industrialization that took
the delays were possible because, to that end, they envisioned the necessary power generation
enough. A country that does not control its energy does not control its future.
The people of Peru are not integrated and geographically, socially, politically or economically.
This means that we have not learned much less applied the experience of countries
industrialized. And today we are missing the opportunity of gas
Camisea.
Infrastructure is central to the development of the nation, which should be designed
considering the process of human adaptation to climate change and mitigation
pollutants, looking together that access to fresh water as treats
human right, cheap, clean energy, conservation and promotion of biodiversity and
food security of the population.
The infrastructure we want to discard the extractive primary export model and its routes
spoliation, to be tools of incentive for innovation, fluency, interconnection,
connectivity and production linkages and the added value that we should give the
sustainable industrialization of our natural resources.
4.2.1

The core infrastructure development CREATION
INTERNAL MARKET

Peru is a nation of macro-regional space whose unity is crucial and
require potential articulated together in a common effort macro-national-that
fasten the transverse axes with the longitudinal, projecting connection with the spaces
linked to the other South American countries. On this basis, the number will be boosted
regional and local infrastructure, concerted processes, with regional governments and
local as well as indigenous and rural communities and diverse populations around the
country.
To integrate the country and nation building, creating and expanding markets simultaneously
Internal propose developing a core infrastructure that includes: energy, roads
communication; fuel and telecommunications. Energy is fundamental to the
industrial development, agro-industrial and agricultural, but also roads, because
This development made possible by the interconnection between the peoples of both the coast, mountains and
jungle and transport of goods and / or passengers. Additional enough fuel requires both
in order to satisfy domestic needs, transport and some industries, such as for
They are interconnected internally and with the outside world via telecommunications.

88

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

The concept of core infrastructure follows a unique, systemic and comprehensive design
national backbones, which will on this basis, the reorganization of centers
towns and appropriateness of the various regional and local infrastructure, previous processes
decentralized concluded with the various regional and local governments, as well as the
native and rural communities, and the various populations throughout the country.
Core infrastructure features:
1. Energy.
Given our geography and watersheds, it is advisable in principle to invest
in a large hydroelectric project that allows us to get a good capacity
covering power demand in a year horizon, for example in 25 years.
2. The means of communication.
These must have features that allow us to quickly get out of backwardness. These are:
capacity, speed, security, economic and ecological. These roads are the roads
railways.
3. Fuel.
Natural gas is basically the fuel that the Peruvian nation should use to use
domestic, transportation, industrial development, either as a fuel or electricity.
4. Telecommunications.
As in the case of roads, they must have the following characteristics:
capacity, speed, security, economic and ecological. These features have
definitely the optical fiber.
The advantages of core infrastructure
The benefits to our country once culminated the infrastructure works required
development of this nucleus are:
First, the expansion of domestic markets that already exist and will enable the creation of
others across the country. This will advance the integration of the country and the
nation building, ie a national political community. Population growth
the country will be in a more orderly and equitable manner across the country concentrating the
more people in urban cities already created and to be created. This will be a source
Demand focused on the country. On the supply side, in the areas of influence
the kernel will generate major economic corridors and economic corridors will be taken
adjacent through regional feeder routes of communication, achieving circuits
production of various manufacturing. New industries will be created that will support the
kernel development, as the railway industry, the steel industry in the process patent
railways, the cement industry with patents sleepers with ballast industry
participation of communities across the country. Besides the development of the industry
aviation and shipping, which are needed to improve the transportation of export
of manufactured goods.
Secondly, it will enable the creation of centers of border development and contribute to the
Latin American integration. The villages further away from our country will have the same
development opportunities with any capital city utilities
indispensable, training schools, training and research and development; infrastructure
hospital and regional communication paths interconnected with the railroads. Achieve
interconnect with neighboring countries through its rail networks are in

89

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

mostly near the borders of Peru, realizing this way interconnection
physics of the countries on this side of the continent, improving our trade relations,
social, cultural and economic.
Third, it will allow a better political organization of the country. He viable to regionalization
cross-country, in which the regions will be shaped by various departments
coast, mountains and jungle, bringing the diversity of resources will ensure to achieve development
regional balanced. It shall also allow better political and administrative organization of the country,
with a more realistic and functional than the current decentralization. Thus, the State will no longer be absent
the remote villages of our country. He also will streamline and optimize services
public and that the country be ordered, cities will be created which will focus the
public services in general. The spaces between train stations will be long length and not
will cause the excessive growth of housing, shops and other services normally
installed along the roads, where each service demands attention
public to meet their needs.
Fourth, improve internal and external security front. The train as a means of
Transportation, will allow the transfer of materiel, personnel and military equipment, any
part of the country for a possible conflict in the external or internal front and will have the
energy and fuel needed and especially fiber optic communications with higher
degree of reliability communications using the electromagnetic spectrum. Also,
with roads using freight trains, we will market the products
Alternative coca, thanks to the creation of processing industries and agricultural production
livestock found in the valleys of our mountains and forests, creating markets
internal and increasing the competitiveness and especially eradicating illicit drug trafficking.
Fifth, it will reduce the import of hydrocarbons and the energy mix will change. The gas
Natural definitely it is the power source to be used to meet the needs of
fuel and electricity in the country and as is implemented in time, just
Thus, it will be reduced imports of oil which will generate foreign exchange savings
country. The national hydrocarbons in principle be used to satisfy some needs
domestic and export generally depending on the amount of resources have. By
Moreover, the natural gas will be the new energy matrix, which through networks
serve to supply the needs of human consumption, public transport and
Private and emergency fuel industries and electricity and
hydropower will be the main source of the industries of different types.
Finally, it will allow the national transport system. No major axes not exist any
efficient transport system. Today the means of transport which has achieved development
industrialized countries is the train; This computer serves axis of an entire transport system.
For example, during the nineteenth century, the construction of the Erie Canal and railways
transcontinental led to economic growth in the United States. Similarly in
XIX century in Russia with the Siberian of 9,288 km long, fully electrified, and
trains with a capacity of 6,000 tonnes achieved economic development of that country. Of the same
way across Europe, China and Japan, among many others.
The technology, materials and human resources, and funding for the
core infrastructure construction
Russian Siberian construction of 9,288 km from Moscow to the port of Vladivostok
in the Sea of ​​Japan, it took thirteen years, 1891-1904, and took nineteenth century technology
small drills, picks and shovels to build thousands of bridges and tunnels in a geography

90

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

hampered with lakes, rivers, swamps, hills and forests and a temperature of more than 20
degrees below zero, with the help of the Russian people, the Armed Forces and inmates.
With current technology, a core infrastructure would be done in less time and at lower cost.
Today there TBMs EPB (Earth Pressure Balance - Earth Pressure Balanced)
with a record of 501 m per week (TBM diameter of 9.5 meters) and only needed
TBMs 5.5 m in diameter. There are resource-inputs for its construction: the stone that
You need as ballast for the railroad come from the hills of our country; there are companies
Peruvian cement sleepers can do you need the railroad; we have a
Armed Forces which is partly responsible for the development of the country and can be achieved through
its logistics and human resources at the highest level in road construction; we have
large communities of farmers across the country and patriotic attitude
nationalist, able to be unskilled work, and we have engineers capable Peruvians
performing these works.
The planning and implementation of core infrastructure will be provided by CEPLAN and
five-year financing will.
The design of the core road network infrastructure
Digital technology allows a high speed, high capacity and resolution in
telecommunications systems either on phone, text or image to develop all kinds of
administrative, commercial, financial and other, and exchange information operations
using the topology of networks and information systems. Also, thanks to technology
digital, have made great progress in making modern trains that reach high
extreme speeds up using electricity.
These facilities give us the digital technology, especially in systems
telecommunications, allow us to design a network topology in the form of a matrix mesh
six three longitudinal and transverse axes in the form of virtual template, put them
on the geographical map of Peru matching them with potential brokers
economic. Electric power, natural gas, train and fiber optics are integrated into a single
block or package as if it were a single stroke within the mesh, as follows: The
train runs along the railway, which is fed by electrical energy through pantographs, and
both optical fiber as gas pipes will be installed below or beside the railway.
The mesh will consist of six transverse axes and three longitudinal axes. These axes
involve the following locations:

Transversal 1:
Paita - Piura - Chulucanas - Huancabamba - San Ignacio - Santa Maria de Nieva -. TNT. Pinglo Sarameriza - Saramuro - Parinari - San Jacinto - Santa Fe - Nauta - Puerto Franco -. Iquitos - Aucaya New Freedom - Huangana Blanca - Chimbote - Caballococha - Brazil and Colombia.
Cross 2:
Chimbote - Suchimán - Chuquicara - Yanac - Siguas - Huacrachuco - Uchiza - Boca Apua Campoverde - Pucallpa - Abujao - Brazil.
Cross 3:
Callao - Lima - La Oroya - Tarma - Acobamba - San Ramon - Satipo - Atalaya - Esperanza - Brazil.
Transversal 4:
Marcona - Acari - Coracora - Upahuacho - Antabamba - Tambobamba - Paruro - Urcos - Puerto Carlos Quincemil Inambari -. Puerto Maldonado. - Puerto Pardo -. Bolivia.
Transversal 5:
Matarani - Mollendo - La Joya - Arequipa - Cañaguas - Imata - Deustua - Juliaca.

91

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

Transversal 6:
Ilo - Moquegua - Cuajone - Mazocruz - Bellavista - Pichacane - Desaguadero - Bolivia.
Longitudinal 1:
Tumbes, Piura, Chiclayo, Trujillo, Chimbote, Barranca, Lima, Cañete, Ica, Nazca, Chala Camana
Mollendo, Ilo, Tacna.
Longitudinal 2:
Rio Santiago, TNT. Pinglo, Moyobamba, Tarapoto, Juanjui Tocache, Uchiza, Tingo Maria, Huanuco,
Cerro de Pasco, La Oroya, Huancayo, Huancavelica, Ayacucho, Vilcashuamán, Pampachiri,
Pampamarca, Upahuacho, Pauza, Carrascuyocc, Arirahua, Chuquibamba, Lluta, Huanta, Yura,
Arequipa, Moquegua.
Longitudinal 3:
The Strait, Sta. Teresa, Iquitos, Nauta, Requena, contaminates, Pucallpa, Ollanta, Atalaya, Camisea,
Quillabamba, Cusco, Urcos, Sicuani, Juliaca, Puno, Yunguyo, Zepita, Desaguadero.
Core infrastructure

92

The infrastructural development plan Core
National Network Energy supply electricity to the train for movement, to the fiber
optics, to different cities, industries, etc. and will add great hydroelectric
Manseriche put, located in Santa Maria de Nieva in Amazonas department with a
Approximate capacity of approximately 7,500 megawatts.
Natural gas will be supplied by gas from Camisea Cusco.

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

The mesh will reach a length of around 9,000 km approximately and will in the
HUB Peruvian coast with three ports Paita, Callao and Ilo and will be adapted and modernized ports
Chimbote and Marcona.
The optical fiber is taken from the actual laying of optical fiber already installed in the Pan
Pacific Ocean and connects us to the world from Lurin, Lima.
Implementation and development of core infrastructure will be made by five-year plans
covering twenty years. These plans are formulated in concert with the authorities
regional.

4.2.2

ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE

Situation
We depend on liquid hydrocarbons, which supply 51% of demand,
mostly oil that we import annually more than 700 million
dollars.
We continue tolerating the indiscriminate felling of forests for energy consumption in particular
for domestic use in places where rural electrification systems still fail.
Even in 2009, the burning of wood still supplied more than 50% of residential consumption
in Peru.
There is no planning of national interest for the construction and operation of our
Powerful water resources, even though government authorities themselves say and
repeated that in the long term is discounted the participation of major water resources in the
energy matrix, so we continue in underdevelopment on cheap energy and
clean, reflecting this fact dramatically in tariffs have delivery service
more expensive energy throughout Latin America.
The development and operation of our wind resources, with projects in infrastructure,
particularly in the north (600 MW) have been shelved because recent governments preferred
protect its policy in favor of fossil fuels under the pretext that he had to follow
ruling in correspondence with the "market signals".
There is no development of nuclear power plants, despite the Peruvian Institute of Energy
Nuclear (IPEN) from 1983-1989 actively worked as an online agency
"Nuclear power project" under the direction and composition of excellent professionals
trained at the Center for Nuclear Studies (CSEN) of IPEN and abroad. The
professionals and technicians in nuclear energy planning and operation are available and
experienced, many still working in the nuclear work. The first feasibility study
nuclear power to install a nuclear power plant of 600 MW was inspected and guaranteed
by experts from the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), by agreeing to
pass the feasibility stage. This study was submitted to the Ministry of Energy and Mines (MEM) in
1985. There uranium resources in Puno Macusani proven reserves of 3,580
Tm and 3,720 tonnes in estimated reserves, to be exploited not only to meet the growing
national energy demand but also international in the near future, since
extraction through processing uranium as fuel.

93

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

The pipelines carry the natural gas are not yet a reality to be
massively exploited by households and industry in general who need them. The
contract terms do not consider this fact to the whole country. Furthermore, recent
successive governments give priority to exports, putting the attention to the internal market and
the incorporation of gas as part of the new energy matrix.
Policy actions
The National Plan for Energy Sovereignty be drawn, which will include infrastructure
necessary to make it sustainable over time and different power, safe, accessible, clean and
cheap, considering that in the next two decades, we will need to incorporate
between 7000 (worst case) and 24,000 (optimistic case) MW. If this demand to be covered
projects of 100-200 MW as at present, be required to incorporate 35-240
new units, that is from 2 to 12 projects per year. These figures indicate that the solution does not
It is on small projects, but large. Which between them cover at least the
half the requirement, then the combination may be 75% hydro (5,200 to
18,000 MW) and 25% nuclear (1.800 to 6.000 MW).
The development of hydroelectric Manseriche starts, as a major project that will generate
7,500 MW. Transmission lines for the nation of agreement include the Core
Infrastructure.
We develop the strategic concept of nuclear activity for peaceful purposes,
applications of nuclear energy research reactors, multi and irradiators
planning and implementation of a nuclear power plant or high-temperature
complementary and integrated into the electricity grid north-central-south, to strengthen
the actions of nuclear safety and radiation protection, with an autonomous body and decentralized
as the national authority, thus reaching the strengthening of the institutional body
rector of the various nuclear applications.
Our natural gas resources, which are in Camisea, in the fields of lots
56 and 88, will be transported by pipeline for domestic consumption at the national level, and
for the creation of the petrochemical industry.
1.3

PORT INFRASTRUCTURE

Situation
Peru, which has a total of 2,997 km of coastline in the Pacific, whose main ports are
Callao (Lima), Paita (Piura), Salaverry (La Libertad), Chimbote (Ancash), San Martin (Ica), Matarani
(Arequipa) and Ilo (Moquegua), does not have the necessary infrastructure to serve and / or attract
megacarriers (shipping lines operating with many destinations), which transfer the load
containers, known as load contenedorizada- south, north and east
subcontinent. This is the reason for the high port costs and constitutes a major
causes that generate the problems of competitiveness.
The public port system also includes river terminals in Iquitos (Loreto), Pucallpa
(Ucayali), Yurimaguas (Loreto) and Puerto Maldonado (Madre de Dios). Due to significant
sedimentation processes and very frequent changes of course of the Amazon river, is
require large technical efforts to keep these ports active and in good
operating conditions.

94

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

Policy actions
ENAPU modernize and transform the continental mega-port Callao as competitive.
Recover infrastructure Paita and Matarani of their illegal privatization, and Ilo
We will project the inter-oceanic ports north and south.
We will strengthen the infrastructure of the ports of Salaverry, Chimbote, Pisco; the network Hidrovial
fluvial and ports of Yurimaguas, Iquitos and Pucallpa.
We develop the infrastructure of specialized ports, in Talara oil and
Bayóvar minerals and San Juan de Marcona.
We will strengthen the shipping industry in Peru.
1.4

Airport Infrastructure

Situation
The airspace is indispensable for the security and development of the countries well, so
must be preserved and secured by States through their national security system,
represented by its air force, which must work in perfect balance and justice in
personnel and civilian authorities are under its control and authority. This concept is
advocated by ICAO.
Between 1945-1975, the Peru was considered an air power in South America. In
those years lived in open competition with private commercial airlines State,
SATCO managed by the FAP, smoothly and continuously strengthening and development.
The air transport fleet, flying clubs, fumigation and individuals (private) exceeded 1000
aircraft of all types and categories.
Civilian pilots of small aircraft owners and actively contributed to the flying clubs in
emergencies due to natural disasters and evacuations of wounded or seriously ill,
thus representing a very important and useful force for the country, becoming the reservation
Air that the country needed.
Currently all airlines operating in Peru are of foreign capital:
Chilean, Ukrainian, Central, no distinctly Peruvian. No active flying clubs,
Peruvian pilots are mostly abroad, there are almost no private planes
or fumigation, except for the Romero group not involved in commercial operations
regular.
In short, Peru, geographic and orographic conformation, is eminently aeronautical,
where it is cheaper to build airfields and airstrips to build a road in
the jungle or mountains. However, as you can see, aviation in general has been
abandoned by successive governments since 1985 to date.
In the process of promoting private investment in the country, generated by the last
Governments and as part of the transfer to the private sector strategic activities
in aeronautics, in February 2001 the International Airport concession was granted
Jorge Chavez (AIJCH). Promotion Plan was then approved in meeting of Board of Directors

95

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

dated February 4, 2004, ratified by Supreme Resolution No. 022-2004-EF of 24
March 2004 delivery was established in the said promotion plan, on concession
nineteen (19) airports, into three groups. On December 11, 2006 was signed on
Concession contract of the First Group of Airports with the company Airports
of Peru SA The granting of the second group of airports considered:
1.
2.
3.
Four.
5.
6.

Airport
Airport
Airport
Airport
Airport
Airport

from
from
from
from
from
from

Andahuaylas (Apurimac Region)
Arequipa (Arequipa Region)
Ayacucho (Ayacucho Region)
Juliaca (Puno region)
Puerto Maldonado (Madre de Dios)
Tacna (Tacna region)

The airports are being concessioned without considering activities that are
strategic that are directly related to the development and defense of the country.

Policy actions
Approve the necessary laws to encourage infrastructural development of commercial aviation
from the country. Consequently, promoting the construction of airports, airfields and tracks
landing, giving them air mechanisms, customs and functional control.
Encourage the creation of flying clubs, for aerodeportiva practice.
Recovery Collique airfield infrastructure, alma mater of the School
Civil Aviation of Peru.
Refurbish the infrastructure of all the country's airports.
Creation of the aviation industry in the country.
fifteen

TELECOMMUNICATIONS INFRASTRUCTURE

Situation
The public telecommunications service covers all forms of distance communication,
including radio, telegraphy, television, telephony, data transmission and interconnection
computers. The State is responsible for this public service that reaches the entire population
equitably. Access must be universal and should serve education, peace and
strengthening of the national consciousness. Telecommunications services should allow,
In addition, a global communication, multimedia, interactive and staff to encourage
economic, social and technological development of the country and national defense. Currently the
country is not interconnected in all its magnitude by lack of investment in infrastructure.
Policy actions
Telecommunications play a vital for national security and defense role. For the
Therefore, as a strategic activity, creating a state company is required
telecommunications, involving public or public-private investment.
Telecommunications in the country will have a unique network, application of digital technology
prioritize the optical fiber as the most efficient means of communication to be installed at the Core

96

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

Infrastructure, and be able to develop at the national level social programs; Management
database; National clinical history; virtual private network voice and data, including
public universities and expedite the efforts of the national virtual library with access
open to all schools.

On the airwaves and substantive extension to digitization, it will build a
wide network of national public connectivity of business competition and guarantee
exercise of citizenship rights as the press, expression and dissemination.
They promote various technologies, such as microwave communications, satellite and / or
television and radio broadcasting, with special emphasis on national fiber optic network.
1.6

ROAD INFRASTRUCTURE

Situation
The situational state of regional and local national road network can be summarized in one word:
insecurity. The consequences of it are the loss of life, bodily harm and
psychological, and economic losses.
The policies adopted by the State to address the problem of road safety,
are only gestures, are not structured or less there is interagency coordination
by the different public players are competent to solve and implement actions
about. This neglect of the State is also reflected in the lack of interest and indifference to
high number of road traffic victims, amounting to 3,000 deaths and over 50,000
injured no deaths, annually.
With regard to road infrastructure, and not concessioned tollroad, many of the
buildings have not implemented the technical requirements or criteria for safety on the roads,
so much so that OSITRAN noted that concesionan and roads are built with up to 120
technical specifications, and the first initial toll roads have been
built with 10 to 15 of these requirements only.
The National Road Network is a network of roads deficit in relation to the need for
interconnection of the country. Only 50% of roads built have asphalt layer and the rest of
gravel or crushed stone and do not have good maintenance.
Peru is part of the "Initiative for South American Regional Infrastructure Integration
- IIRSA "emanating from the Summit of Heads of State and Government held in Brasilia in the year
2000, the same involving the twelve countries of South America. IIRSA has projected nine
Axes of Integration and Development in the South American area. Peru participates in four of these
themes:
•
•
•
•

Axis
Axis
Axis
Axis

Amazonas (Peru, Ecuador, Colombia, Brazil)
Peru-Brazil-Bolivia
Interoceanic (Brazil, Paraguay, Bolivia, Peru, Chile)
Andean (Peru, Ecuador, Colombia, Venezuela, Bolivia and Chile)

The importance of the integration of the South American infrastructure project Axes
IIRSA results in a favorable access to other countries in the region and other continents by
use of road infrastructure networks and shared communications axes identified.

97

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

Currently it is implementing international interconnection works, such as:

• South American Regional Infrastructure Integration - IIRSA
• Interconnection Iñapari road - southern seaport
• Program binational Peru - Ecuador
Policy actions
All road concession contracts that have been made so far will be revised
In order to start the respective audits with regard to the technical requirements to be met and
final budget of the work. In the process of granting of a concession made shall be incorporated
criteria linked to road safety and a comprehensive set of services such as
medical assistance, mechanical assistance, rest areas, restaurants, toilets, among
others.
The various levels of government will meet the assigned competition in transport and
transit, so that the road infrastructure in their jurisdiction is proper and possess the
appropriate signage and traffic lights, especially in urban areas, assigning
special budgets for this purpose.
Flexibilizaremos review and current regulations in the sector, emphasis will be on achieving
a permanent walkability throughout the national network, and implementation is required
electronic systems automatic traffic control as intelligent traffic lights and radar
electronic speed complemented by appropriate signs. The use of technology
should prompt the location of electronic devices GPS radar type of bullets
national road network.
We will use national financial resources to strengthen the construction industry, the
Peruvian engineering and national consultancy services. Only the contest will be allowed
foreign companies in cases where there are strict reciprocity agreements.
Promote the creation of road maintenance companies (MEMV) throughout the national road network,
in each of its levels: national, provincial and local. The MEMV will be made up
professionals in the area with the help of local people, properly trained.
The funds to pay for road maintenance companies of departmental networks and rural
They will be incorporated in the budgets of regional and local governments. To these are added
the contributions of skilled users.
It will continue the execution of road works as the Interoceanic IIRSA South projects,
Interoceanic North (Amazonas Norte) and the Costa-Sierra programs, among others.
1.7

RAILWAY INFRASTRUCTURE

Situation
Currently, Peru is one of the countries in Latin with one of the lowest rates
kilometers of track. Although it is the means of transport par excellence, the best in the
world, we only have 1,929 km of track of which 1,572 are franchised to
private sector for commercial exploitation.

98

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

Concessioned railways are the center, south and south east. The central railway station is used
to transport minerals from the mountains to the port of Callao. The southern train is used
especially for freight and passenger train south and east it is purely touristic. In the three
cases, the operating conditions are not the most optimal for different reasons equipment
rolling stock that does not use electric power source, it would be more advisable for the
zero pollution, trace the path that does not allow for optimum speed and capacity
trains, among others.
Non-privatized railways are: Tacna - Arica and Huancayo - Huancavelica, which
They are practically out of use.
Policy actions
The new development model considers a core infrastructure that will allow the incorporation
9,000 km of track about giving great impetus to the rapid development of
country because the lines will be designed rectilinearly in most cases, with tunnels and
bridges, electric power is used as power engines and locomotives are
for freight and passengers.
Concession contracts with private investors will be renegotiated to improve
capacity, security and speed of the trains and the service they provide, with a new engineering
in the lines that incorporate tunnels and bridges. As far as possible they should change the matrix
feeding the locomotive engines electric or electric motors
fuel source and should incorporate passenger trains and freight for all cases.
Trains no concession will be reactivated, and will join the network core infrastructure.
The railway industry will be created.
1.8

WATER AND WASTEWATER INFRASTRUCTURE

Situation
There are problems of low coverage of water and sanitation; poor quality of service; 59% of
no disinfection system in rural areas; precarious financial situation of providers
services; inadequate tariff policy and sustainability with low minimum investments.
The infrastructure in all cities and towns of Peru is deficient because it does not have
a comprehensive plan for watershed management in the highlands.
Policy actions
It is essential to redesign and reorganize the water infrastructure by introducing concepts
adaptation to climate change works for storage / reservoirs, platforms, dams,
channels, water conservancy, hydropower, water supply systems for drinking water
for urban centers, etc., to reduce vulnerability and increase the resilience of these
systems to climate change and the various requirements of all activities
society.
We will promote urban planning work in concert under a management approach
the territories and a comprehensive plan for watershed management in the upper parts, ensuring
availability of this water resource.

99

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

We promote the implementation of appropriate technology infrastructure to achieve water
safe and low-cost sanitation, different from the conventional type, which saved
keeping with the actual capacity of payment of the rural population.
We will allocate the necessary financial resources to promote efficiency in building
infrastructure and provision of potable water and sanitation partnership with
local governments, companies, private investors, small businesses and agents
financial.
Implement effective environmental management of municipal solid waste by
micro contest communal public cleaning. This in the context of all
municipalities.
1.9

INTERMODALITY

The roads must possess appropriate characteristics as capacity, speed,
safety, economy, durability and be environmentally sound. To achieve necessary
intermodal include various modes of transport (land, sea, river,
rail, air) according to the great changes (containerization, technologies
information, use of superconductors, value-added logistics platforms, personalization
load, seller-buyer relationship). This is necessary as the joints
specific macro-regional, cross-plot (interbasin axis) and longitudinal (coastal,
high Andes and Amazon), with the respective roads, railways, waterways and coastal shipping in the
national space. To achieve this plot will take into account the requirements to be competitive
in the South American continental scale and connecting South America with Asia Pacific,
especially needed in southern Peru direct connection with Rio and Sao Paulo in Brazil, North and
Amazon of Peru to Manaus and its industrial empire, and urban and rural South synergies
Peru to Bolivia and northern Peru with Ecuador, and affirmation of our 200 miles in the
maritime domain of Peru. Thus different equations will be established between the various
national transport modes, depending on the macro-region and in accordance with the populations and their
areas of decentralized governance.
In Peru, it is a strategic issue of the highest order, in the articulation of the various modes
transportation, stating in the same interface port their maritime sovereignty. For this is
necessary to strengthen and develop the whole decentralized national port system,
Enapu as administrator of the State public ports, port companies in their units
integrating a port holding company. It is necessary to project development zones
especially customs duties and tax-economic transformation and platforms
value-added logistics Interoceanic continental scope, calling for investment
private for this joint effort. Thus, the articulation and the National Port System
Enapu modernization should help to overcome the current monopoly privatization subject,
to have the transformation of Callao as a competitive continental mega-port between Dubai
Ports and Enapu; Paita and Matarani recover their illegal privatization, and Ilo, projecting
inter-oceanic ports north and south; strengthen the ports of Salaverry, Chimbote, Pisco;
Hidrovial enhance the river network and the ports of Yurimaguas, Iquitos and Pucallpa; develop
specialized ports in Talara oil and mineral Bayóvar and San Juan de
Marcona.
4.3

CAPITAL MARKET DEVELOPMENT and democratization
CREDIT.

100

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

a) Short diagnosis:
The financial system is in charge of channeling funds from surplus agents
(Investors) to deficit (companies) in the economy. Therefore, this market acts as
facilitator of investment and financing companies and consumers and is a factor
key to economic development.
All countries in the region lack of developed financial systems, even if
We consider Chile, which is the country with the greatest advances in this sector. While there has
been entirely clear is a direct causal link between the progress of the financial system and
economic development of a country, the truth is that there is a strong positive correlation between
both variables for most countries. That is, countries that enjoy a higher quality
life (greater access to essential public goods and services) are those who have
developed a greater financial culture.
The financial system of an economy operates in two areas: financial intermediation
(Banking system) and non-financial services (market or capital). In
Latin American banks are the most important source of financial resources,
while the share of the market still remains at very low levels. To the
respect, it is estimated that bank credit reached a level four times higher than the debt
the capital market.
For the Peruvian case, the banking system is one that, by far, has a dominant position in the
Finance system. However the level of banking in the country, measured as the ratio
Credit / GDP-is among the lowest in the region. One of the main features of
domestic banking system is its high concentration. According to the Superintendency of Banking,
Insurance and Pension Funds, only four banks account for 91% of mortgage loans; three 94%
80% and 60% of loans to SMEs, commercial loans and consumer loans, respectively.
In addition, our banking system operates with a strong segmentation defined structures
differentiated competition. While the microfinance segment a few entities
credit have a high share of market power that allows them to influence rates
interest (oligopolistic nature) in the case of premium category corporate structure of the market a
little more competitive. One of the main reasons for this distinction is that agents
corporate sector have the option to access resources through its own emissions in the
market and not only via the banking system. Indeed, according to the portal
National Supervisory Commission for Companies and Securities (CONASEV) in recent years has
I been experiencing a substitution effect of bank debt direct debt issued by
corporate enterprises.
The central intention of developing the capital market in local currency in the country is that
serve as alternative funding mechanism for operators, which individuals
access to a cheaper and less risky financing (reducing reliance on credit
banking foreign currency). In this regard, special emphasis deserves the sector
small and medium enterprises (SMEs), since they contribute substantially to the real sector
our economy (employment and economic activity) and constitute the matrix of projects
medium and large enterprise scale. According to the economic literature, one of the largest
difficulties faced by SMEs is access to finance precisely. Thus,
it is imperative to incorporate these economic actors on the capital market to
obtain greater flexibility and financing alternatives to develop.
Today, our market is emerging, that is, is not very developed or
deepened. To overcome this situation it is essential the existence of an active market,

101

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

deep and liquid government bond rate to generate referrals that require emissions
private. In that sense, the most important attempt to develop this alternative has been the
Market Makers Program (PCM) implemented by the Deputy Minister of Finance in the
2003. The objective of this program was to expand the public debt market based sol
the progressive issuance of sovereign bonds with terms of increasing maturity. The idea
Central was the generation of a free yield curve risk soles serve as
Reference (benchmark) for the private sector and thus promote further deepening
the market in local currency.
In accordance with the statistics, after implementing the PCM based on the increase in the balance
public debt experienced a strong balance parallel private bonds -in
especially from corporativas- entities, which was an important first step
the development of the securities market in the country. Despite initial effort meant
PCM implementation, the fact is that a number of difficulties remain not solved
limiting the further development of the securities market in the country. The most important is the lack
system liquidity caused by the restricted range of fixed income instruments. According to
PCM report prepared by the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF) in 2009 were made
seven sovereign bond placements for a total amount placed of S /. 1,400 million,
It represented only 4.4% of the flow of liquidity in the financial system this year.
An important issue to consider at this point are your fiscales3 implications. The country belongs to
spectrum dollarized economies, which maintains a high degree of financial exposure.
In order to reduce this vulnerability, the management of public debt should pursue
concentration of government financing in the domestic market, in domestic currency and rates
fixed interest, as it works in developed countries. This will decrease its exposure to
currency risk and adverse external shocks, contributing to fiscal sustainability of the country.
Another important aspect in this theme are its implications for monetary policy.
We refer specifically to the effects generated by the development of the market in
local currency at the level of efficiency of monetary policy. In that sense, dollarization
economy is one of the most important stylized facts of financial system
national. While in recent years the dollarization ratio of liquidity in the system
Financial has experienced a clear downward trend, the fact is that still maintains a high
level, which limits the efficiency of monetary policy in the country. To be more rigorous, we
explicit that is when referring to the efficiency of monetary policy
4
the "transfer effect" (pass-through) a change in the benchmark rate in the BCRP
fee structure of the financial system. In that sense, developing the stock market
national currency drives the process of solarization of the financial system, leading to a
significant improvement of the transmission mechanism of monetary policy and thus
increases levels of efficiency.
On the other hand, the existence of a deep and liquid market capital in national currency,
monetary policy impacts faster in the fee structure of this market with respect to
the banking system. But we must also consider that a developed capital market
increased competition in the banking market and, in this way, leading to cheaper
credit and ultimately also improves the efficiency of monetary policy.

3

For more details check Jimenez, Felix. Rules and sustainability of fiscal policy. Lessons
Peruvian experience (2008). PUCP Publishing Fund. Lima Peru.
4
For more details check Lahura, Erick. The Transfer Effect of Interest Rate and Monetary Policy in the
Peru: 1995-2004 (2005). Central Reserve Bank of Peru (BCRP).

102

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

Thus, although at present the Market Makers Program operates, not yet
exploits its strategic importance to the country's development. We refer not only to enable the
access to financing for all Peruvians, but also their positive effects
on fiscal and monetary policy. Peru is a country of vibrant, creative people and
entrepreneur who has many ideas and projects that in most cases there
They come to fruition by the lack of financing alternatives. It is said that the market
capital in local currency is to the economy what democracy is the political system.
b) Policy proposals:




















We implement a policy of development and deepening of the capital market
soles. This policy will be implemented through the development of public debt market
soles, with greater impetus and promoting Market Makers Program based on
yet more responsible issuance of financial instruments in domestic currency
to deepen the debt market in soles and provide an alternative mechanism to
banking system.
Improve the efficiency of the interest rate instrument of monetary policy by
development of the domestic capital market in soles. This will push a market
public debt. This market will deepen the capital market in local currency and
make it more liquid, by references rates generated only they incorporate risk
sovereign. With the development of this market, it will also increase the competitiveness and efficiency
the financial system as a whole.
Reform the regulatory framework of the capital market to enable the issuance of
private debt, especially small and medium enterprises, with patterns
trusts and several guarantees to ensure compliance with its commitments
debt issues.
Strengthen the efficiency of financial intermediation by deepening
gradual and voluntary agents and transactions dollarization, which affirm the role
transactional national currency and substantially improve the supervision and regulation
independent of the financial system, to steal the officers and the public from risks
High financial volatility.
Democratizing access to credit requires removing the barriers created by the
segmentation between large plaintiffs resource users and other customers; the
implementation of regulatory approaches that reduce exposure to risk concentration
credit supply; improving banking ratios and improving the
depositor protection instruments.
Create mechanisms to facilitate and guarantee debt issuance reform-through
the regulatory framework of capital markets- by small and medium enterprises
with good credit histories.
Specialized in microfinance and microcredit intermediaries will be encouraged through
the transfer of technological capabilities to manage their portfolios, especially in
the Andean and Amazonian rural areas.
Consolidate the role of facilitator, regulator and promoter of market information
conducted by the National Supervisory Commission for Companies and Securities (CONASEV). Is
measure includes:

Promoting a culture of savings and investment in the country with the aim of bringing greater
number of issuers with an emphasis on SMEs. In that sense, it will strengthen the
creditors' rights and apply strategies to improve the system of guarantees
support of development banks.
Wider dissemination, promotion and enhancement of transparency of information and knowledge
respect the local stock market.

103

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

Reinforce the regulatory and supervisory role of the Superintendency of Banking and Insurance
with the aim of generating greater competition in the banking sector, and thus
restrict market power that few agents have in this area, which
will allow greater access to funding sources. This initiative contains
following:
Standardization process credit conditions in advertising agencies
bank.
Periodic dissemination of the results of evaluation on the implementation of financial rules
each of the banks.
Facilitate access to information the actual cost of credit and total conditions
credit and financial.
Promotion campaigns on rights and obligations of users and the financial
implementation of educational programs.
















Systematize all of the financial information of the public and private
country, thereby serving to boost the formation and development of plants
financial risk in the country. This measure aims to provide a tool
information to reduce the risk of overstatement of potential customers.
In coordination with the private sector, the implementation of policies to promote research and
development of new technologies credit.
Together with the countries of the region, promote the formation of a regional entity
Credit whose main objective is to support the progressive issuance of local currency bonds
member countries.
In coordination with the National Superintendency of Public Registries (SUNARP)
continue implementation of the single registry of security that allows
improve the system of property registration.
In coordination with the judiciary, promoting the process of development of courtrooms
specialized in commercial matters and the training of judges in financial matters.

104

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016
4.4

GANA PERU

LABOUR MARKET, LABOUR RIGHTS, EMPLOYMENT AND INCOME

In the long term, the Peruvian labor market suffers from the combined pressure of growth
explosive population currently affecting especially the age population
work, and its capitalization by historically adverse terms of trade, the
payment of external debt, capital flight and the application of adverse policies
internal accumulation.
In terms of medium-term employment it is also affected by the price system: type
low exchange rates, interest oligopolistic and abusive, indistinct tariff reductions, tariffs
basic relatively expensive (in fuel, electricity and communications), plus
production and productivity of severe structural adjustment of the final decades of sequels
Last century. This pricing system model and limited job creation. So too
They make, through its effects on labor productivity, lack of protection of the workforce
workers by unfavorable policies, which result in the loss of capacity
wage bargaining, weak social security coverage, and health and social policies-in
education- insufficient.
Thus, employment required for sustained improvement, redesigning economic policy
in terms consistent with the internal accumulation and increasing levels of tax redistribution
for a population that should strongly improve the current conditions of generation
human capital. On this basis it can propose measures that affect productivity and
competitiveness, which gradually improve the employment problem.
The most visible points in the current issue are:
1. Work is little associated with the processing sector, so that the matrix
production is adverse to the generation of added value. Or sufficiently fail
availability of raw materials and advanced technology demand, nor rise
important demands of modern amenities. Their dependence on production policies
external borders the country too dependent production and the generation of
jobs that perpetuate their own delay.
2. widespread informal employment. Most of the urban and rural employment are
It corresponds to production units with limited capital, low productivity,
marginality respect of laws and poor labor absorption capacity. The work
independent unskilled work in small urban enterprises of less than 10
workers, peasant smallholdings work, work at home are
about three-quarters of the national employment and new jobs
country.
3. Poor business development and wage labor. The impact on employment
"Modern" in the sense of being dependent on formal or medium-sized enterprises
-the largest employment in private enterprises with more than 100 workers amounted to only
7% of employment is entirely part of the problem of economic modernization, but
deprotection also partner -the social security systems are dependent on
formal and demand for skilled labor and job specialization
education.
4. The existing formal work, which should act as an engine of transformation
labor market is unprotected degree which undermines productivity. The
social security coverage is scarce, as comes less than a fifth of the
population. Collective bargaining and unionization dropped to around
fifth in the early 'reforms' of the nineties and recovery
later it is of little significance.

105

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

Employment growth depends on the rate of economic growth and structure
sector. This growth and its focus on sectors with greater value creation
added, to be sustainable, they depend on the strengthening of the savings-investment process.
Employment policies for the rural sector where inequality is concentrated are associated
investment in infrastructure, technical extension policies, securitization of the precarious property
access to financing and social investments in education, nutrition and health.
Competitiveness is expressed in the reduction of unit production costs. There are two
ways to address these costs: a) Reduce the wage and non-wage labor costs by
person employed or per hour worked; b) Increase productivity. However, lower wages
It is possible only once, and only if there is a margin of susceptible costs be reduced. For the
So the option is to improve competitiveness by expanding markets and
systematic increases in labor productivity, which also favors the objective of
improve the quality of life of the majority population.
Only when labor productivity and other factors are growing steadily, the country has
secured their competitive participation in the world trade, this is a necessary condition
so that trade agreements are beneficial for the country.
The flexibility and adaptability of the labor market is mainly achieved with reforms
education and ongoing training systems at work. This is the way to achieve a
fluid and dynamic market work. Reforms in the labor market are closely
linked to the development of physical and human capital in the economy. So should be increased
investment in research and development, to adapt and improve technology and raise the quality of
education for mobility and adaptability of the workforce.
The conditions under which the labor market operates affect their treaty compliance
international. Peru has ratified 62 of the 159 international agreements in force.
Four agreements classified as priority, Peru has signed only two (Inspection
labor and employment policy) is pending concerning labor inspection in
agro and tripartite consultation.
A committee of the ILO has commented on the application of ratified Conventions 37,
among which are: i) the existence of serious violations of the convention on forced labor
Atalaya and Ucayali, as well as mines Puno and Cusco (hooking system) and washes
Gold Mother of God and ii) the current standards are insufficient to implement the principle of equality
of remuneration for men and women workers for work of equal value in the
public sector and promote the same principle in the private sector.
There are discrepancies between national legislation and international conventions signed: the
labor legislation provides work "subject to special conditions," which encourages legal uncertainty
workers and promotes intensive use of these contracts to the detriment of ways
stable recruitment; and there are various groups of workers in terms of
disadvantage, such as domestic workers, formal and informal guards,
hawkers and drivers and conductors of public transport, those without
with rules that they cover.
Given this situation, it is essential to implement measures leading to a large
transformation of the labor market. A generic level, in line with the strategic goal
to transform the style of economic growth which involves integrating the economy with the
demography and geography of the country and social integration of the nation, the increase will be promoted
decent work (ILO) and quality to generate the greatest possible number of new jobs

106

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

work contributing to the reduction of underemployment and improving the quality of
activities.
Therefore, the proposed policy should focus on promoting employment opportunities
decent and productive work for all men and women, that is, to promote the work
which takes place in an area that respects fundamental labor rights, you receive an income
or worthy enough, allows access to social protection and safety at work and is part of
social dialogue.
4.4.1














Very determined to support the transformation of agriculture. Particularly in irrigation,
technological transformation and modernization of agriculture and livestock, support
infrastructure and training. Agricultural delay is the beginning of the chain of delay
productive and domestic labor.
Promoting public investment in infrastructure with intense use of labor
in projects of roads and engineering works.
Redirecting public investment in infrastructure projects to profitable yet in
intensive sectors that generate job creation.
Road, energy integration, communications, etc., of the national territory, to extend the
market will create conditions for the development of productive activities that demand
labor force.
The National Public Investment System should put job creation as a
important reference variable capital budgeting.
We will promote projects to move from the generation of temporary jobs
permanent jobs. The creation of productive conglomerates that sponsor
integrated large companies and SMEs in the development of a final product (ie
maintenance based on micro and small enterprises).
We will promote a good deal of foreign investment and preferential treatment to national company
employing national workforce.
Organize preventive maintenance of infrastructure based on business and
engineering professionals.
Expand and improve mechanisms for access to export markets MYPES
regional and global.
Correct discriminatory bias against MSEs in government procurement systems,
recognizing the need for its competitive business association and legal forms
take advantage of the flexibility of small production for different public markets.

4.4.2





POLICY PROPOSALS IN EMPLOYMENT PROMOTION

POLICY PROPOSALS ON IMPROVEMENT OF REVENUE

Search the gradual increase in salaries.
The minimum wage will be set at the request of social dialogue and consultation at cost
of a basket Single and labor productivity.
With public support, long-term agreements will be promoted so that companies agree
with workers in wage improvements that benefit both actors.
Reviewing the remuneration policy of the state, seeking to improve the current low levels
remuneration of teachers, health workers and police. To encourage the unification
scales and phase out the so-called non-personal service contracts.

107

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016
4.4.3
























POLICY PROPOSALS ON INSTITUTIONAL ISSUES

Strengthen the National Labour Council, with technical assistance to its members for
performance of its functions.
Strengthening the oversight role of the PETM by increasing and improving
labor inspections.
Evaluate the possibility of joint or complementary with other inspection
autonomous government agencies.
Strengthening and expanding the coverage of policies and training programs
MTPE implements such as PROJOVEN and double jobs in four years.
Promoting freedom of association, collective bargaining and enterprise branch of activity,
such as respect for the political autonomy of labor and business organizations.
Approval and implementation of the General Labour Act

4.4.5


POLICY PROPOSALS ON THE PROTECTION AND SOCIAL SECURITY
PENSION

Based on the extension of the health sector budget, extend protection
Basic health for all and all workers, including those who also work in the
non-formal sector of the economy.
Implement measures to ensure that workers protect their rights
when they are victims of occupational accidents or occupational diseases.
Unlimited review the authorizations or early withdrawals of funds by CTS to
restore their function to protect workers against unemployment.
Strengthening of the National Pension System (SNP) and modification of the standard
promote the profitability of provisional funds, using one's ability
State business.
Free affiliation and disaffiliation free service in the pension systems.
We will promote the participation of representatives of the members on the boards of the
companies that manage pension funds, which will be elected by their
respective associations.
The operating limit investments outside the AFP will continue to be regulated
the Central Reserve Bank of Peru.

4.4.4


GANA PERU

POLICY PROPOSALS ON GENDER

Promote a process of legislative alignment with international conventions on
gender and employment and promote concrete actions in favor of women in programs
employment in the country. Cribs constitution of where mothers can be supported educating their
children while they are working.
We implement training programs and take measures to
Specific guidance and training, with positive action for women to enter
more to non-traditional occupations.
We modernize the production of statistics disaggregated by sex, as well as on
the original population, and new indicators that enable gender analysis will be formulated
a realistic reading of the participation of women at work.
We will promote the development plans include programs for female employment and
seniors and youth.

108

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016
4.4.6






















POLICY PROPOSALS ON THE PROMOTION OF THE RIGHTS AND
LABOR RELATIONS

In the framework of the Declaration of Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work
ILO establish regulatory mechanisms to prevent abuses against workers.
Substantially reduce the observations made by the Committee of Experts of the ILO
international conventions ratified by Peru.
Promote the ratification of the priority Conventions that have not yet been ratified (on the
labor inspection in agriculture and tripartite consultation).
Evaluating the content of the Code for Children and Adolescents recognizes the right to work of
adolescents (from age 12) provided there is no risk of economic exploitation.
This is inconsistent with the minimum age for admission to employment and the days
work established in order to ensure schooling.
Assess distortions in the use of the youth training agreements, of
pre-professional training and apprenticeship contract, which although theoretically chase
an educational objective, no character for law employment contract and therefore not
They provide the benefits granted to the employed.
Guide families for the support they receive from their minor children not become
Children and does not endanger health or labor and physical development or education and
mental, moral and spiritual development of children.
Domestic workers are protected; and discrimination and violence against women
It shall be punished.

4.4.7


GANA PERU

Other complementary policies:

Reduce the cost of procedures and set ups to increase demand
job.
Promote coordination between the state, business and educational institutions
encourage research, innovation and scientific, technological and productive development, which
It will increase public and private investment, and the added value of our
exports and employment.
Support for craft enterprises in terms of guidelines for the promotion and generation
employment.
Promote business investment in job training programs and coordinate
public training tailored to local and regional economies.
Ensure implementation of the principle of equal pay for work of equal value without
discrimination based on origin, race, sex, language, religion, opinion, economic status,
age or any other.
Expand the scope of Temporary Employment Programs and to work, especially in the
nature productive sectors (such as SMEs) and rural areas.
Eliminate the use of the 'services' in the public sector, because in most cases they are means
exploitation and corruption. Domestic workers will schedule eight hours,
rights to social insurance and the minimum living wage.

109

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

4. 5

OPERATING POLICIES AND REGULATION OF MARKETS, AND
THE ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION

4.5.1

The free market as allocator of resources and Welfare

The National Market Economy is based on the proper functioning of markets. The
existence of a market fundamentally presupposes four concurrent components: i)
multiplicity of competing suppliers; ii) multiple consumers doing their
free elections; iii) sufficient information, built on the basis of credible advertising; Y
iv) Prohibition of any form of abuse of power suppliers on consumers,
especially in the product markets.
Markets that do not meet these basic conditions are imperfect markets and
inefficient, exposed markets, which hurt consumers, therefore, they should
necessarily subject to oversight mechanisms, resulting penalty
unlawful conduct; and state regulation, which are progressive forms of intervention
modern societies have for true freedom and market competition.
It is necessary in the search for a truly national market economy status
deploy all its efforts to ensure the proper functioning of markets and seek
decidedly if this does not happen, the mechanisms applied universally to
correct these imperfections, ranging from promoting competition to
direct and transient when necessary and justified exceptional intervention. In
Ordinarily, it requires a strong policy of competition law and law
regulation.
The neoliberal model has been commissioned to make believe that all markets are markets
perfect and free and systematically oppose any form of application methods
universally accepted for the control or regulation operation, such as the
competition laws or control of business concentrations; it has also issued a
culture of "deregulation" of economic activities and ensured the presence of its
ideological followers as INDECOPI agencies and regulators, for the purposes
betray that these entities assigned responsibilities and act back to the
consumers.
It is to wage a battle to restore the authority in the markets and ensure that
these function properly; that anti-competitive practices (consultation, be combated
market sharing, limitation of production, speculation, hoarding, etc.) and abuse
dominant position (against competitors and against consumers), and also that reorient
national regulatory policy. A profound change will take place to set aside the model
neoliberal and to carry out a complete overhaul of all institutions should
monitor the functioning of markets and now succumb to "capture" groups
economic power. Ie SBS INDECOPI Osinergmin Ositran SUNASS, OSIPTEL and
new SUNASA.
4.5.2

THE ROLE OF THE STATE IN DEFENSE OF CONSUMERS

The State can not ignore its consumer protection role in a market economy
and less a model of National Market Economy. The consumer is the center of the process
production and trade and, as a person, it is the ultimate end of any model
economic.

110

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

The protective role means that state action must be geared to equate asymmetry
Information and market power that puts the consumer at a disadvantage, and to combat any
form of abuse of power that can manifest in consumer relations to their detriment.
State priority must be to ensure that the consumer is respected in their dignity, their
economic, and the enjoyment of equal treatment interests, to avoid any kind of
discrimination.
The state can not be "referee", observer of consumer relations, when the rules are
unfair or abusive; or worse, when they are purposely written to deceive and benefit
Providers. The state's presence in consumer relations is to protect the part
weaker economic relationship. Also, the state has to have national standards
differentiated according to the different consumers that exist throughout the national territory,
its diversity of languages, idiosyncrasies and culture. The national state has to be inclusive with
consumer, which means looking at every Peruvian reality and territory.
It is important to rule out illegal interpretations of the bodies regulating the market
concerning adhesion contracts to which the category is granted or immovable
absolute by the mere fact of having been signed by the consumer. These contracts represent
today all modern mass recruitment. No contract of adhesion is absolute
when the clauses are abusive character. The consumer should not be required reading
and interpretation of clauses may not modify, let alone negotiate, and obviously
They have been drawn up to favor powerful suppliers. These clauses are worthless
legal and national State has to withdraw any value for the benefit of rights
consumers. Interpretations of the Constitutional Court in this regard and to defend the
Consumers have been arbitrarily neglected by the regulating agencies
market, so this illegal and unjust situation must be corrected.
Similarly, regulatory agencies have transformed their market performance
a private justice or prayed, reacting only to the complaint or report of a
affected consumers who overcomes the difficulty of going to one of these institutions and that has to
assume the cost of this demand. The actions of regulatory agencies should be
trade substantially, as articulators of the defense of the collective interest. It's necessary
State resources put at the service of consumer protection and interests
transforming vision that regulators have exhibited a stubborn way until today, clearly
violation of the law and favoring the economic power groups that have captured.
Advertising today is diffused in the media is misleading and false; carries a
rude consumers who in good faith believe in the scam and market institutions
lend some credence. Particularly harmful to the dignity consumer advertising
telephone services or that where restrictions are placed on screens recited or without
Any chance that the consumer knows them; It is even more outrageous referrals
telephone exchanges or inaccessible websites or putting information denatured
openly public message. Indecopi, responsible for regulating and punishing these behaviors,
He has been absent and his performance is a resounding failure, has even been the promoter of the
consumers bear the cost of meeting the restrictions of the offer. Also, the
self-regulation, enthusiastically promoted by operators, and endorsed by the own
Indecopi, is actually a patent for impunity and violation of the rights of
consumers.
Advertising is necessary to rebuild credibility, also as a condition of efficiency, as
to the extent that advertising is no longer credible, substantial investment made in the

111

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

it becomes wasted money does not contribute to transmit consumption information
valid.
4.5.3

THE REGULATORY POLICY ON A NATIONAL MARKET ECONOMY

Regulatory policy in a national market economy should have clear objectives
benefit consumers. The regulated market is one where economic efficiency by not
it is convenient or not possible the free play of suppliers, in some cases the
lack of suppliers leads to monopolies, and the activity is essential to meet the
basic needs of the population with no choices. Often this condition
providers privilege is the result of the privatization of infrastructure
high cost, built by the State and has been transferred to the private sector in
ninety.
In markets that are now supposedly regulated: the offer is restricted; choosing
consumers is not possible; and the good traded is essential for meeting
basic consumer needs. Additionally, it is changing industries
They require ongoing investment in technology.
Until today the neoliberal policy has favored the interests of investors agents
service providers. This policy and service regulators are concerned that
accumulate large and disproportionate profits. In all these years, consumers have been
exploited and forced to fund their recovery virtually overpayments
Immediate investments made by private and their huge profits.
Any attempt to restore the balance has been branded as interventionist, retrograde
outdated. It has angrily labeling any intervention in this area as "the return
to price controls, "when in fact, in a regulated market, price controls, and
quality, and conditions of service provision, it is the natural work of the regulator.
Clearly, the neoliberal "regulatory" policy has aimed to benefit the
big business to the detriment of the consumer, with no option to choose, has been forced to pay
higher prices for essential activities, without receiving a quality service without the
delivery conditions respect human dignity.
The main objective of the regulation in a national market economy is focused on
reset the balance: companies have to cover their operating costs, to profit
normal in the market and ensure surplus for reinvestment, moving consumers
a price and delivery conditions that are strictly necessary for that
purpose, outlawing any abusive behavior that means profit against
consumer. Regulatory agencies must become these seekers of balance and
guarantors of consumer interest.
Fixing the regulated price should be based on the profitability that ensures the
investor. It is necessary that regulators periodically broadcast profitability
investor, according to the approved tariffs that allow them to precisely move the
consumers. Thus, if an investor has a return on equity above 50% per year, you can
clearly seen that profitability is exaggerated and that prices transferred to the
Consumers are not appropriate.
In the competitive world, yields above 7% or 8% are considered as interesting and
profit for private investment. Our regulators should be able to establish their intervention

112

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

depending on such variables, and also ensure that investors do not get
unprecedented profits at the expense of consumers.
In regulated markets measurement service provided is a key factor, because when
set the price and profitability of the operation, the regulated investor will try to recover
profit by way of service measurement units. In addition, for services
difficult to measure a dangerous infringement of rights for the consumer space it opens.
This is evident in the electricity and water meters and in controlling the time
elapsed telephone calls.
So far, in a blatant inaction and complicity with investors providers
service, regulatory agencies only accept as valid the measurement made
defendants themselves, with no reasonable official verification mechanisms.
This situation must end and that regulators have the benefit of ensuring -in
consumers-proper measurement of consumption, in order that billing is the
appropriate. The margin of illicit profit by seconds, drops or watt measurement is wrong
impressive if it is multiplied by the number of consumers affected in each of the
regulated markets.
The regulation on the use of basic infrastructure such as rails, airports, ports,
markets, tracks, highways, etc., must regain the objective of developing an economy
National Market, where the national interests of facilitating and growing markets
inmates are favored with reasonable prices that does not unnecessarily more expensive flow
goods.
The regulator must act as a state instrument to that which does not exist
competition, monopolistic behavior of company closer to the competitive model. In
this role and within an appropriate and universally accepted view of the regulation,
organisms called to this task must actively assume the search for balance and
consumer protection against abusive charges and deplorable quality. They are accepted as
part of its activities to monitor the market and the ability to make decisions that influence
in operation the necessary protective action in favor of the consumer. This is true
regulation also applies only with these features in those markets
where competition is not possible.
4.5.4

COMPETITION POLICY IN A NATIONAL MARKET ECONOMY

Competition, where possible and meets the basic conditions of variety
suppliers and consumers; overcoming information asymmetry and ban any
form of abuse, it is sufficient to ensure the best way to exchange and efficiency.
However, when markets are characterized by the concentration of power in a few
actors, despite being apparently free markets, the reality is determined
imperfect markets where consumer rights are not respected. In these cases, the
State intervention is necessary, but this was entrusted to Indecopi, which under ideology
neoliberal, it is absent from the major consumer issues, such as energy
(Gas, fuel), services (telephone, electricity), medicine, financial services, insurance, AFP,
basic goods and foodstuffs, etc.
It requires that interventions by the authority are prompt, effective and corrective to
punish anticompetitive behavior. Urges a comprehensive review of the amendments to
the relevant law by the APRA government in June 2008, with the aim of relaxing control

113

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

these behaviors and even eliminate the Criminal Code speculation and hoarding as
crimes against the market. It is also necessary on abuse of dominant position
concepts like dominance and exploitative abuse rebuild consumer,
restoring the original classification of these behaviors as harmful to competition and
consumers. For the APRA government, the monopoly does not abuse consumers; or, which is
worse, in its regulatory reform has eliminated this course abuse prohibitions
They existed in the law, denying place penalties for these acts.
The new vision of the National Economy of Market requires absolutely rebuild the
Indecopi, expand its scope of action to all the problems of consumption and rethink their
objectives, retiring advocates of neoliberal ideology. An operation controller
the market can not sustain the market independently solve any
imperfection.
It should also resume the debate to the enactment of the Law and Merger Control
Business concentrations that will complement the work of monitoring the operation
markets with preventive activity. Most countries, including the most
capitalists like the United States or Chile, using this tool effectively in defense
consumer. The National Market Economy has to make use of the instruments
internationally accepted and universal use across countries and economies.
4.5.5

THE INDUSTRY REGULATION

Markets are not all equal, nor suffer the same flaws. Sectoral regulation
must be properly informed of the problems that particularly affect the
operation of a given market.
In addition, the State must identify the specific objectives for each market sector
according to their particular characteristics. Thus particularly sensitive agricultural markets
or medicines require a different treatment for those who could
correspond to the marketing of clothing or cars.
Each of the ministries should be able to identify the peculiarities of the
market demand in its sector and the solutions required depending on the importance of
same for the construction of the National Market Economy. These diagnostic and requirements
They must be articulated by a Indecopi restructured.
The level of coordination must allow national policies articulate strategic objectives
sector to meet the country's need to develop their domestic markets.
A common factor to be primarily evaluated in all sectors is the
It corresponds to the commercialization of goods, since that is where the largest number of found
anticompetitive behavior of dominant position agents that harm the right
operation of the free market. Thanks to this behavior before the products become more expensive
reaching the consumer, without the product for a significant profit. The only
It benefited from the chain is the retailer who abuses his position of power and advantage.
This has to stop.

4.5.6

PROPOSALS FOR ACTION

114

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

4.5.6.1 Legislative
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Approval
existing
Approval
Approval
Approval
Approval
Approval
Approval
Approval

a Code of Consumer Protection or improvement of
from
from
from
from
from
from
from

a Compulsory Metrological System
a new Law on Protection of Competition
a new Law on Suppression of Unfair Competition
a law on control of mergers and concentrations
a new Law on Banks
a reform of the Penal Code on economic crimes
A new Act of the Quality System and Quality Accreditation

4.5.6.2 Institutional:
•
•
•
•
•

4.5.7

License to all managers of regulatory bodies
Legislatively reforming the structure of all government entities
regulate market operation (SBS, Indecopi Osinergmin Ositran
Sunass, etc.)
Empowering the consumer associations in the work of defense
consumer with grant funds
Strengthen the work of the Public Prosecutor in the prosecution of crimes
economic, by developing specialized prosecutors
Decentralize consumer protection to municipalities and local governments, and
restore control capabilities

THE ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION

The market has to learn to coexist with the sustainable use of natural resources. Is not
permissible market regulation policy to sponsor the resource depletion
natural and environmental pollution, lack of reasonable practices and the use of technology
modern. The inability of the state audit can not be an open letter to impunity
formal and informal economic actors of this business.
A national market economy can not ignore the need to build a balance
between what the efficient use of natural resources, promotion of the population
in the area of ​​influence and environmental conservation.
One area that requires particular attention is related to the exploitation of resources
forest. Peru is an ecological reserve of humanity and it is essential to conclude the
indiscriminate logging of our forests, which affects the ecosystem and
It threatens the national long-term viability.
Our forest trees are a resource that must be preserved. No operation is possible
without adequate reforestation comprehensive policy, which will translate into concrete demands and
postponed to the beneficiary. Thus, the resource being removed to economic exploitation must be
parts for the purpose of ensuring the least possible impact on the environment.
Those in charge of this activity sector agencies should be strengthened to the effect that
they can count on competent professionals specializing in the field, and resources

115

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

sufficient to effect efficient control. In this work, they must be actively involved
the national police and tax authorities control.
It is possible that the rules are grossly flouted, despite the fact that removals
these resources from their areas of operation to areas of marketing, including
export, due to its characteristics and dimensions, requires transport in several ways
concurrent: air, lake and land. The only explanation for the systematic mockery of
control mechanisms is the existence of corruption and this must be banished.
The participation of indigenous communities in the benefits of economic exploitation
these resources must be secured by tax mechanisms of state intervention in the
economic benefits of the activity. Contrary to what is held, the participation of
bypasses native communities turn to Western way of property, but on empowering
forms of ownership and belonging developed by their ancient cultures.
The only way for the exploitation of these resources is accepted as legitimate and has the
necessary care to the population in the catchment areas is to ensure that the
Native communities have ensured the survival of their habitat, their forms of organization
communal and direct economic benefit that gives them the opportunity to expand their horizons
cultural and development in health, education and welfare.
Markets are not all equal, nor suffer the same flaws. Sectoral regulation
must be properly informed of the problems that particularly affect the
operation of a given market.
In addition, the State must identify the specific objectives for each market sector
according to their particular characteristics. Thus particularly sensitive agricultural markets
or medicines require a different treatment for those who could
correspond to the marketing of clothing or cars.
Each of the ministries should be able to identify the peculiarities of the
responsible markets and demand solutions that are required according to the importance of
same for the construction of the National Market Economy. These diagnostic and requirements
must be articulated by a national supervisory authority and control of the markets,
It could be located in the restructured Indecopi.
The level of coordination must allow national policies articulate strategic objectives
sector to meet the country's need to develop their domestic markets.
A common factor to be primarily evaluated in all sectors is the
It corresponds to the commercialization of goods, since that is where the largest number of found
anticompetitive behavior of dominant position agents that harm the right
operation of the free market. Thanks to this behavior before the products become more expensive
reaching the consumer, without the product for a significant profit. The only
It benefited from the chain is the retailer who abuses his position of power and advantage.
This has to stop.

116

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016
4.6

SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION

4.6.1

PRODUCTION TECHNOLOGY AND EXPERTISE

GANA PERU

Peru is a country that buys most of science and technology from abroad. Science and
technology they not only found in the production of capital goods used for
production of other goods and services, but also in all industries, processes, services and
forms of organization. The incorporation of knowledge in the form economic activities
part of the process of wealth creation and value added is done to progress. Given the
natural resources and raw materials are non-renewable, countries should seek
balance in your specialization. History has shown that countries that
They specialize in producing knowledge that they have been able to grow and progress industrializing
relatively faster than those that provide simple labor, raw materials or
natural resources.
In this perspective it is not desirable that only Peru specializes in the extraction of materials
intensive activities premiums or unskilled labor, should at least gradually
diversify into the production of goods, services and assets with higher added value and
embedded knowledge. This way you get a production portfolio that allows it
meet with higher added value its domestic market and properly balance the exchange
goods, services and assets abroad.
This diagnosis leads to the need to raise as a strategic economic model,
issue of development of science, technology and innovation. This is not to produce knowledge
all goods and services we consume, which would be impossible and totally inefficient but
those in which we can compete and where complemented by other resources and
factors can be exported with added value.

4.6.2

THE STATE OF SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION

Science and technology in Peru are characterized by a meager funds
used for impulse and lack of links between the various actors involved in the
developing.
As an example of the former, Peru is one of the last places in spending
research and development (R & D) in the Latin America. While Brazil and Chile invest
about 1% and 0.7% of GDP, Peru invests only 0.08%; that is, in proportional terms
GDP, unless Chile 9 times and 12 times less than Brazil. Within this impoverished
contribution, the Peruvian State participates 28% of total expenditure while the Brazilian State
Chilean do with 58% and 65% respectively; that is still being the contribution of Peru
small in absolute amount, the state's share in total expenditure on R &
development is also one of the lowest in the region. In recent years, funds
loans from IDB (Technology Programme), World Bank (INCAGRO) and
Regional Canon have been the most dynamic, although only the former has focused directly
promoting technologies as the other two have an emphasis on production chains and
increasing competitiveness in general. Direct financing of the budget of the Republic
It is very limited.
Moreover, the lack of linkages and relationships between the agents is another feature of
our system. Large companies with foreign and domestic capital and imported technology
They are working with high technical standards, while small companies operate almost without

117

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

technology or backward technology, low quality standards. There is a high
Peruvian industry dependence on imports of machinery and equipment and a very small
own technological capacity. The large foreign investment projects using technology
Advanced, but the relationship with suppliers is mainly commercial, so
that there is a significant transfer of knowledge. According to the report CONCYTEC
(2001), a survey of 8976 both domestic and foreign firms invested only 9% in
technology itself (not as part of an acquisition of capital). Of the firms that
They did, 61% acquired technological services abroad, 20% acquired licenses
technological outsiders, foreign brands 10% to 5% standardization for control services
quality also abroad. The lack of domestic technical capacity, reduced size
our market and the difficulties and complications in the management of technology by the
companies, makes this dependent on technology services from abroad and not
there is greater knowledge transfer.
Only Technology Innovation Centers (CITES) created by the State with the aim of
increasing the competitiveness and productivity of small and micro enterprises have had a
reasonable but limited dissemination of existing knowledge performance. While his
Coverage is reduced, they have served to disseminate any information technology, training and
enhance human resources, introduce quality standards and increase productivity
some companies.
Opportunities for collaboration between universities and between them and businesses are
virtually nonexistent. The relationship between university researchers of contacts
Personal occur and that little or no custom business culture for the
corporations come to the university to develop their technology projects if
Effectively they had. On the other hand, international technical cooperation programs
have limitations as they favor default packages, many closing the
creative and incremental learning.
The administration of public science and technology policy in the hands of scientists
Peruvians who are dedicated to basic research but have little knowledge of the
interactions required to transfer the results of basic research to industry
productive. At the institutional level, technological and public research institutes created
during the decade of the seventies and eighties (IMARPE, INIA, INGEMET INEN INICTEL, etc.)
with the aim of providing support to industries, they have become institutions
bureaucratized and vegetative, with one exception. The liberalization of the economy,
privatization of public enterprises and the disappearance of industrial development plans, they
floor was removed and made out of step on this function. There is also no career
public official investigator that rewards merit and encourage researchers, which
retain the best and most productive.
In general, resources for research and development are few and far between. The
availability of human resources with completed secondary and even university is
growing in Peru, but the quality of education provided is not good. Often
finds that primary and secondary students are ranked in the last places
regional level in both math and language and let alone universities, where up
today does not function properly a good system of accreditation. There is also no
policy to prevent the "brain drain" from the country or outside that promotes training and
subsequent return to Peru. Nor an open system allowing continuous exchange of
knowledge with other R & D institutions abroad. The laboratory infrastructure
public and private technological research centers is virtually nonexistent. I do not know
knows no center of R & D from private corporations. Nor are there national laboratories
internationally recognized quality certification of goods, services and processes and

118

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

weights and measures. Universities do not have the minimum infrastructure for
research and technological development. As for the legal infrastructure, statistics show
what it is disjointed and ineffective that the patent system as an instrument to promote
local inventiveness. Patent statistics indicate that over 95% of patents
recorded in the INDECOPI belong to foreigners and less than 5% citizens of Peru, which
slurred and indicates the distance of the legal infrastructure of intellectual property
national reality.
While there are no specific data, is that a significant proportion of the few efforts
engaged in innovation and technological development they never come to implement. The
various market failures such as lack of information, coordination problems between
supply and demand, ignorance in entrepreneurship and technology management in business
processes lock. A significant part of the innovation that is generated comes from the side of the
supply and too little demand side, which affects their non-use. Even with patents and
legally registered utility models, many innovations are not economically
no other viable and forward-looking vision and a lack of business management.
At the level of national institutional architecture, the National Science and Technology and
SINACYT Innovation and the National Science and Technology, CONCYTEC (governing authority)
results have to be mere illusions of paper with very few resources, skills and articulation. He
Fund for the Development of Science and Technology, Fondecyt, CONCYTEC arm, has
resources and practice has been replaced by the Science and Technology Fincyt that
manages funds from IDB and FIDECOM and does not depend on the coordinates and CONCYTEC
SINACYT.
4.6.3

ACQUISITION,
TECHNOLOGIES

LICENSING,

ABSORPTION

Y

TRANSFER

FROM

Mentioned in the previous sections, that despite the few studies and information
check the above, the purchase predominantly Peru almost all the technology that uses the
outside. Only a few companies are active in the pursuit of advanced technologies; the
most seek technology means high or moderate levels or cost saving
their productive activities. On the other hand, is that technology comes incorporated in goods
capital processes, inputs or commodities, Peruvian firms generally not
deployed any effort to learn and know about it. The approach to the
technology is so passive, a large contingent of companies do not even bother to
acquire the basic knowledge necessary to maintain or improve the technology, but
depend exclusively on outside services. This situation should gradually change.
The following is proposed:
•
•
•
•
•

Promote primary information about the state of science and
technology in Peru. Two basic tools are needed to develop the input table
Product and satellite accounts in science and technology.
Foster a culture of acquisition or licensing of the best and most efficient
technologies from abroad.
Platforms provide information about studies, fairs, meetings, demonstrations,
and exchanges of experience on the technological development in the world, especially
in those branches of potential.
Build national technological capabilities to achieve absorb knowledge
developed abroad.
Promote the active transfer of technology from multinational companies to the country. It
It can be done through various tools, including: 1) training

119

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

•
•

4.6.4

GANA PERU

trainers, 2) local technology transfer networks, 3) access programs
resources or concessions in exchange for technology transfer, 4) facilitate the installation of
technology development centers driven by multinational companies in those
branches, services or industries with the greatest potential, etc.
The promotion of investment and joint ventures between domestic companies and multinationals
in activities with great development potential relative.
Place the technological learning at the center of the agenda for technology transfer
abroad.

CREATION OF KNOWLEDGE AND RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

The review of the general situation made in section 4.5.2 leads to the conclusion that the country
requires a true transformation and promotion of their generation systems science,
technology and innovation. This transformation is one of the pillars for the country gradually
go adding more own knowledge in addition to those who have been able to rent or buy
- In goods, services and assets that produce for the domestic market and those who traded with
the outside.
On the issue of development of science and technology in Peru will be favored actions and policies
in the following areas:
Funds and Financing
•
•
•
•

The increase in funds allocated to R & D amounting to 0.7% of GDP, a similar level
Chile is currently in a period not exceeding three years.
Part of these funds should be used as a counterpart to the expenditure on R & D of their own
medium and small local companies and elsewhere to leverage entry
additional venture capital to fund further R & D.
The state should concentrate at least half of public funds for R & D 4-5
economic sectors previously defined by their potential for creating value for
domestic firms.
The R & D spending public should promote cooperation and links between institutes
public technological research, universities and the sector of small and medium
companies.
Economic incentives and Morales

•
•
•

The granting of tax incentives for companies that develop innovations or
do R & D on their own resources.
In this context, it is expected that at least two national economic groups establish their
own technological development centers.
Widespread promotion of awards and competitions that recognize inventors and those
that is dedicated to investing in research and development.
Building and Strengthening Technological Capabilities

•

Strengthening technological capabilities of enterprises, so that
in a better position to absorb the knowledge of the technologies
from outside.
Technology Infrastructure

120

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

•

GANA PERU

Improving high technology infrastructure that is required to accompany the
growth of R & D in selected areas or sectors. Among this is
laboratories, machinery and basic equipment for research development, instruments
for standardization and metrology, etc.
Human Resources

•
•

School reform, technological and university education system. Please remove the
level of knowledge in basic science across the board.
Privileging policies for training and retaining the best national talent and to
exchange knowledge with foreign talent, in addition to recovering the key
national cadres who wish to return to make their contribution to the country.
Intellectual property

•
•

The transformation and adaptation of intellectual property laws to make them
instruments that effectively encourage the ingenuity of Peruvians more than the
foreign.
Facilitate access to intellectual property records to micro and small enterprises.
Market failures

•
•

•

•
•

The state will act to actively promote the establishment and functioning of the
technology markets.
To this end, emphasis will be on policies that strengthen the technological demands of the
businesses and consumers, rather than the birth of one of the technologies created
On the supply side and ideas of inventors and scientists. In that sense the fit between supply
and demand is one of the main flaws of the currently existing market.
They are the fault of information, cooperation and coordination between agents which must be
face. For this, the State will work intensively with key industry players
private universities and institutes and research centers in promoting
various programs and activities.
In specific situations the technological development of public goods is required.
Given the difficulty of articulating the technological development and entrepreneurship and management
business success, recovery activities will be encouraged and start-up of the
technological projects and business plans for its introduction and survival in the
market.
Technology Parks

•

Encourage the development of a couple of small parks technological development level
national characteristics of free zones and special rules that allow the entry of
companies fully dedicated to technological development and aggregation
knowledge of raw materials and abundant natural resources in the country.
Institutional and Organizational Issues

•

Promote from the beginning the decentralization of activities in science and technology
structure and specialization and division of labor between the central government and
regional governments. While the general and regulatory aspects of the policy will be decided
at the central government and there will be a central governing body at national level; the
Regional governments will be responsible for conducting and implementing policies

121

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

•
•

4.6.5

GANA PERU

their areas of jurisdiction with full autonomy to incorporate the needs and
particularities of each region. Each region will develop its technological activities
autonomous and competitively relative to their resource endowments and capabilities in
under national technology policy.
Transform the structure, number and scope of current public institutes
technological research according to the new needs of the economy and taking into
account the respective spatial and geographical requirements.
Creating organizational and economic conditions permitting the creation of the race
Official public research and its respect and appreciation by the general public.
A kind of patrician dedicated to the enhancement of the country, which is rewarded
their efforts and grows according to merit and performance.

INNOVATION, COMPETITIVENESS AND DISTRIBUTION

The other key activity to improve levels of knowledge embodied in goods,
services, assets or factors produced in the economy are linked to the promotion of
innovation and competitiveness and dissemination efforts and continuous improvement
quality.
A renowned example is presented in the field of gastronomy, through the dissemination of
knowledge and constant improvement of mechanisms to improve the quality of
different linkages in the chain. There is no doubt that the more knowledge
built, incremental innovations and disseminating them raise the level of
competitiveness, satisfaction and the welfare of both producers and consumers,
throughout the chain.
For this reason the issue of innovation, competitiveness and the dissemination and expansion
knowledge are key to the national market economy. Some of the lines and
strategic activities in this area are:
•

•
•
•
•
•
•
•

The relaunch, strengthening and expansion of the Centers for Technological Innovation
CITES, as information tools, training, dissemination and improvement
incremental of best practices and technologies in major industries
activity to which the micro and small businesses in Peru are engaged.
The strengthening of a true national quality system that promotes use
standards and best practices to improve the quality of economic activities.
The promotion of "star ups" and "spin offs" that serve to disseminate knowledge and
generate synergies imitators of innovation processes.
The facilitation and improvement of connections in the various supply chains and
positive systemic effects generated through innovative activities.
Improving systems of technical standards, certification, accreditation and metrology
so that national gain international recognition.
Harmonize and link the National Plan of Competitiveness and innovation efforts
dissemination of knowledge.
Encourage compliance with the rules of free competition as
instrument for fostering innovation and improving the quality of activities
economic.
Appropriately balance the forces of dissemination of knowledge to those of
appropriation of results form duly compatible incentives
individual with collective goals.

122

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

4.6.6

GANA PERU

There will be a ministry SKILLS IN SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY AND
INNOVATION

This Ministry is responsible for proposing and implementing public policies in science and
technology, which will aim to address the major problems of the State from
and greater political participation of all sectors and all levels of government agencies
research (IPOs). The first actions will be to prepare the laws and standards enabling:

























Define three priority areas of research and development, where investment has
high probability of success, to guide the use of resources on large
scale, aimed at obtaining products and services of high technological value, for
compete with the international market. In principle, these could be the nano-materials,
biotechnology to improve plant and animal sciences and information and
computing. However, such deficnición must be coordinated with the companies,
University and PROs, which will be participating in the projects.
Tables renew existing research IPOs by standard criteria
international to ensure meritocracy and promoting excellence in
investigation.
Establish career in science and technology, the branches of research, technology and
management, respectively. For competitive scientific and technological institutions
internationally, must ensure that law equally remunerative income
internationally competitive.
Creating scientific and technological attachés to channel scientific cooperation and
foreign technology and the involvement of residents in the Peruvian researchers
Foreign.
Create the Institute of Peruvian Abroad to organize the participation of scientists and
Peruvians abroad in research and development engineers Peru.
Create the Permanent Forum on Science, Technology and Technological Innovation compound
science and technology researchers and entrepreneurs to advise Congress on their
activities related to science, technology and innovation.
Reorganize and optimize the structure of the National System of Science, Technology and Innovation
Technology.

Ascribe all IPOs are attached to MCTI, so true is achieved
scientific and technological coordination and use of resources devoted to optimize the
research in priority topics.
Merge all state funds for science and technology, one that will
administered by a single administrative structure, under the jurisdiction of MCTI, with
defined priorities.
Create the Center for Interdisciplinary Scientific and Technological Research, opened for
cooperation with private companies to research new products and services, and
implement the Law on Science and Technology Race for the selection of its staff.
Create the President in Science and Technology award, by which recognizes annually
a researcher who has produced relevant scientific and technological knowledge.
Participate as a state with 50% of investment in research collaboration made
IPOs, universities and the Company.
Select by competition by the Law of the School of Science and Technology, teachers
researchers from private or state universities who wish to pursue research
University, in collaboration with the IPO and the Company.
Select by competition by the Law of the CCT, young graduates for thesis
issues that develop teacher researchers in collaboration with the company.
Strengthening the system of graduate scholarships, giving priority to science and technology careers
carried abroad.

123

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016





















GANA PERU

Create Higher Studies University Science and Technology, made by teachers
Selected by the Researcher Career Law and selected students and
scholarships from the State, so as to form the leaders of science and technology in Peru.
Reset the thesis requirement for the professional degree.
Encourage the installation of technology companies in the neighborhood of universities
technology, encouraging the formation of technological poles.
Create a center for promoting creativity and inventiveness of inventions and patents, and
safeguard the knowledge of endangered communities biopiracy.
Create the National Training Center for the Teaching of Science and Technology in
that the most productive researchers, members of the CCT teach teachers
primary, secondary and university recent advances in science and technology and Peru
World, which will become the hotbed of scientists and engineers.
Create specialized schools and state schools on the theme of science and technology.
Create interactive museums of science and technology in the departmental capitals, that
children and families discover the fun, interesting and productive you can be the
science and technology, successful scientists led by members of the CST.
Create radio and television programs devoted to science and technology, in which
show fun and productive side of science and technology.
Create radio and television "Secrets of Success" where shown by
interviews and research, that dedication to study and research is fun and
profitable.
Create training centers for parents to interact with their children through
scientific discovery and games that are attractive and appropriate to encourage
curiosity.
Organizing public research organizations to receive school visits
from primary, for which there should be an interactive museum about their issues
investigation.
Create a network of science clubs across the country, in which it engages students and parents
family.
Strengthen science and technology fairs, by training teachers
specializing in promoting them and fostering creativity.

124

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

Chapter 5

5.1.

GANA PERU

Policies
Sector
Additional
The Strategy
Development

THE TRANSFORMATION OF THE AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION

Agriculture absorbed a third of the economically active population and contributes only 7% to GDP. There are 2 million
Agricultural units and most presents barriers to access to credit,
procurement of equipment and modern tools of improved seeds, systems
technified irrigation, fertilization and biotech breeding, and methods
effective use, breeding and cultivation, given its low level of capitalization and
organization.
Agricultural activity is disjointed and excludes the vast majority of farmers. The
public investment (3 billion soles) are messy and then prioritizes great works
privatize (Olmos, Majes, etc.). We are growing food insecurity live by erroneous policies
State and limited support in the defense of the same domestic production and small
production. The opening of markets as a result of the FTA, has consolidated agricultural exporters,
but a serious re-concentration of land ownership is evidence, which contributes to a
latifundismo new type.
We will fight to have an articulate, competitive and sustainable activity, aimed at providing
food security for the Peruvian population; inputs for national agribusiness that places
organized small producers of natural areas in the best markets
national and international, on favorable terms, to reassess the country man and
farming.
To do this the mission of our government is to facilitate the legal, material, financial,
tax, organizational and technological peasant and native communities, as well as
agricultural producers, entrepreneurs and organized farmers to be competitive in the
markets in which we interact in harmony with nature; for it will implement a
radical transformation of the agricultural sector and the domestic market will defend itself against the
subsidized imports.
Our strategy will be to reactivate agriculture with a territorial approach, joint work by basins

125

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

basins, to add value to primary production, and incorporate organized way to
farmers market, in competitive terms, with employment opportunities for
agricultural professionals and technicians, in order to prioritize national food sovereignty and
defense of national agricultural markets.

Our fundamental policy for the vast agrarian transformation are:
1.

Renegotiate NAFTA
to. So far this government, pseudo have signed Free Trade Agreements
in addition to indiscriminately open our domestic market at subsidized products,
from other countries, also they allow to lock in direct investment
foreign, in terms of national sovereignty to the renegotiation of contracts harmful to
national interest is concerned. In this regard, a legal technical review of these proposed
treated, from the point of view of national interest, after which, in cases
necessary, renegotiate them is required.
b. Also, we review all Trade Agreements involving trade
agricultural and food products (MERCOSUR) to promote equitable articulation
foreign markets.
c. We will prioritize the multilateral agreements and international trade agreements, under
World Trade Organization (WTO), and will foster the return of Peru to
Group of Twenty.

2.

Reform and decentralize the structure of their agriculture
to. We assume the development of agriculture as State Policy.
b. Ruralizaremos and decentralize the Ministry of Agriculture (MINAG), its Agencies
Public Decentralized and Special Projects.
c. Strengthen the agrarian agencies with participation of local governments and
organized local independent professionals, who will be in charge of the Services
Extension-Technical Assistance to peasant and native communities, as well as
small producers to make their production plans and Marketing,
Operations and Finance, in order that they can access credit system
I Financial.

d. The technical guarantees will be extended by these agencies and will assist the
Applications can be channeled through a bank counter, an entity of
financial system, preferably the National Bank, which has the largest network
agencies nationwide. Monitoring and evaluation will be undertaken by technical experts
trained in financial management and project preparation.
e. We will promote the organization of business associations, unions and the community
farmers and peasants for their business and union participation, which generate
spaces for dialogue at national, regional and provincial levels.

f. We will promote the agricultural property on the coast does not exceed 10,000 hectares
irrigated; while in the mountains, 1,000 or 20,000 hectares under irrigation

126

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

rainfed hectares. In the case of the forest, the extent of the property will be limited
According to the quality of soil and crop certificate. In all cases, the State
Nationalist prevent the re-concentration of land and around the estates, as
They do most Latin American countries.
3.

National Food Sovereignty
to. Agricultural production will plan according to the Economic Ecological Zoning
and the demands of the domestic and international markets, giving priority attention to
food requirements at local, regional and national levels.

b. Agricultural production will serve national food sovereignty. Agriculture and
agribusiness are two of the main pillars to achieve sovereignty
ensure sufficient supply of food and able to compete with the
subsidized imports.

c. We defend national production against imports of subsidized products and
consumption habits will promote domestic agricultural products, supporting the
creation and organization of agribusiness production chains.
d. We will promote that producer organizations make direct sales to
State social programs (PRONAA, Wawa Wasi, Glass of Milk, hospitals, barracks,
etc.) competitively.
e. Fight for respect for traditional coca leaf cultivation, but apply the
concept: COCAINE COCA YES ... NO !, to separate the circuit of illicit cultivation in
partnership with consumer countries. The coca leaf production will be acquired by
ENACO; there will be a program of gradual recovery of the soil, control the
supply lines and distribution of inputs and a system of public safety.
f. Crop development, development of tourist services, aquaculture and will be promoted
forest development to strengthen production in the Amazon.
Four.

Financial system credit to small farmers and peasants of the
Sierra and Selva
to. Redefine the role of AGROBANCO to grant financial guarantees (Guarantees) to
for producers that require the rating of "bankable" by the system
National Financial, which is guided by concepts of comprehensive coverage, impact and
sustainability.

b. We will strengthen and redefine the agrarian agencies specialized network system
Warranty and Technical Support via Professional Independent Experts.
We implement integrated systems of technical assistance, financial assistance and
training for small and micro agricultural, begin by crops
Andean and jungle, we will promote agricultural restructuring to generate markets
competitive for regional products. We will rescue and update experience
Credit to private technical assistance, supervised credit and management
solidarity to promote the culture of good paying portfolios. There will be group loans
with joint guarantees for smallholders, farmers and indigenous peoples
combination of microfinance strategies come across Rural Banks, Banks
Municipal EDPYMES credits, up to a million small farmers. For it is

127

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

essential to strengthen and decentralize the degree of COFOPRI, that culminates with
the process of granting land titles, and implement an insurance system
AGRICULTURAL accessible to producers entering the financial system.
5.

Promote local development with a territorial approach watershed
to. We lay the institutional, social and organizational basis for the generation of wealth
rural territorial approach to institutionalize cooperation and coordination of actors
public and private, and increasing intersectoral coordination at basin and
sub-basins.
b. We build a new institutional architecture for concerted rural management
basins, sub-basins and economic corridors involving local governments,
unions, professional associations and other institutions.
c. Deepen the redistribution of political power to regional and local governments,
promoting mechanisms to facilitate public and private investment in projects
productive infrastructure of regional and local impact.

6.

Natural Resources Conservation and Biodiversity
to. We will keep our biodiversity, prioritizing knowledge and revaluing
local in situ conservation through an ecosystem approach and emphasis on
preservation of our genetic wealth. We will not allow the continuation patenting
our genetic wealth.
b. It will consult and support the development of management plans and the use of
biodiversity by indigenous peoples and peasant and native communities with the
in order to reassess and protect the natural ecosystem. Strengthen Plans
Zoning for the conservation of our biodiversity and order the
forest concessions.

7.

Technological innovation in the field with a human face
to. Institutionalize policy and specific technological innovation
We will arrange joint actions with the private sector, linking development
technological agriculture to economic and social development.
b. We develop the skills of producers through training and participation
producers in research and technological change.
c. We pursue collaboration of national experts living abroad to
empower our field technicians in modern production technologies
agriculture, livestock and forestry.

8.

Foster partnerships with agricultural organizations
to. We will promote partnerships and business and social organization of communities
peasant and indigenous, as well as farmers and agricultural producers in particular
the small agriculture.
b. Strengthen the agricultural organizations by adopting a self- assessment and

128

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

special funds for training and will encourage the Associations and Companies
Producers (cooperatives, peasant communities, agricultural enterprises, etc.)
become actors that facilitate the intermediation in the field.
9.

Productive infrastructure to serve small farming
to. We will promote the efficient use of irrigation water by running
and drainage projects on the coast and mountains, for which we will promote
modernization of sprinkler and drip irrigation according to crop.
b. We implement a national program specialist in modern irrigation according to
culture technologies and ecological region.
c. Recover 100,000 hectares of terraces and Warus Waru (ridges) at the end
five.
d. We will promote, together with local governments, the implementation of
infrastructure for post-harvest treatment of the products: Camales, Beaches
Benefit, collection centers, network of dairy farms, silos and warehouses in the areas of
production.

10. Tax Policy in line with the agrarian situation
Expand the tax base in the area, for which:
to. Sinceraremos recovery of export taxes so
proportional to the volume exported.
b. We establish a fiscal timetable for the activities of the sector in line
with the timing of the agricultural seasons.
c. We will encourage business organization of small producers through swap
tax credit for continuous training and technical training.
d. Sinceraremos the value of land for a fair property tax in favor of the
Local governments and the constitution of the mortgage guarantee fair price.
Our immediate commitments to the country's farmers:
We will promote and strengthen a financial system that reaches the field through networks
sustainable maximum coverage and impact. We tend bridges for the financial system
reach farmers through decentralized funds for the producer guarantees that
constitute in AGROBANCO and other financial intermediaries for loan and working capital
capitalization.
1) Thus, we inject 5,000 million soles a year for the revival of agriculture
of the disadvantaged, which increase productive employment. Agriculture regain its role
priority sector of the economy, which in the first year AGROBANCO capture resources
700 million soles for the granting of guarantees, through market transactions
open in the domestic capital market in local currency.
2) We will give opportunities for decent work to almost 100,000 agricultural professionals to
contribute to the formalization of small producers in rural areas and to
participate in the system of technical and financial assistance through access to credit

129

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

supervised collateral.

3) financing lines associated with mixed sources and -commercial be used blandas-
in loans funded through COFIDE for small and medium producers,
special exporters.
4) Strengthen Civil Defense Unit of the Ministry of Agriculture and build a
appropriate technological platform with early warning for the prevention and mitigation
effects on climate change (droughts, floods, mudslides, landslides etc.).
5) Create the Agricultural Insurance to protect farmers from climate risks.
6) We will promote the Agribusiness for maximum profitability and will use the
strategic planning to prevent oversupply of the most sensitive products of the three
regions, in addition to the value added stays in the producing areas, supporting
economic decentralization of the country.
7) will review forest concessions to ensure the rational exploitation of our
natural forests, fighting, sternly, illegal logging.
8) We will promote export of alpaca fiber and meat production circuits and Andean
call; cochineal Andean crops; fattening cattle; fish, etc., for which
we will implement immediately, breeding programs and protection
our germplasm.
9) Also, we give special importance to the repopulation of vicuna, imposing severe
penalties for poachers and giving them greater participation in communities
value of the annual shearing. We will encourage the industry to develop processes
finish vicuna fiber.

130

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

5.2.

GANA PERU

THE TRANSFORMATION OF INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION

Manufacturing activity caters to the economy of consumer goods, intermediate and
capital. It forms the core of the productive activity of processing circuits
field our natural resources, forests, sea mines and pits, into useful products for the
everyone's life. Hence the existence of different production circuits from animal fibers as
alpaca to complex mining-metallurgical processing of copper in the industry is the
engine core circuit.
In Peru, the industrial sector accounts for one fifth of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and generates
jobs for 11% of the economically active population (EAP). Furthermore, this
economic sector representing approximately 21.5% of tax revenues, 15% of
total exports and accounts for 15% of foreign direct investment (FDI).
From the set of economic reforms in the nineties, the country experienced
reprimarization process of economic activity focusing national productive matrix
primary-based extractive industries with low added value. Thus he moved
manufacturing activity as the main determinant of economic growth, which
It led to a stagnation in capital intensity (the capital ratio / work) in the economy.
They are small and isolated attempts to sustain the competitiveness of our products
technological innovations, new forms of organization and production chains due to the
absence of policies in this regard.
In our country millions of emerging talleristas have access restrictions that are developed
credit; the renewal of equipment and tools and face a series of legal barriers
that limit their access to markets. Gamarra and industrial centers in Lima and Unicachi
Juliaca witness the dynamics of entrepreneurship of small production organized around
market and production circuits. However, although in smaller numbers, they operate
large manufacturing units locally having a high coefficient capital / labor, a high
productivity, competitiveness and employment and taxation.
In this regard, an important place of generation of added value with plenty of
national and international linkage is the great mining (copper, lead, zinc, iron, phosphates, gold
and silver) which is the mining and metallurgical industry and export supplier of large
complex export of semi-finished and finished products derived.
An indispensable specialization is the production of mining technology. The ability to deliver
and take inputs from mechanical metal-chemical industry, metallurgy, transport equipment,
energy and other, given a role mining director when connected to internal suppliers.
The central idea is that the industry is sustained in domestic markets and in expanding the
External reducing unit costs through systematic increases in productivity.
When labor productivity grows, the country gains a competitive participation in the
world Trade. In that sense, the State will seek to adapt to new paradigms such as
Constant innovation and quality services; flexible production of goods with characteristics
distinctive; end consumer satisfaction; the use of advanced technologies; control
distribution chain of their products and the economy of ideas. All this requires having
highly competent managers, foster personal initiative and promote teamwork.

131

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

The industry supported walk in domestic markets and in expanding external,
reducing unit costs through systematic increases in productivity. When the
labor productivity grows, the country gains a competitive share of world trade.
Policy proposals


We will promote a productive circuit natural, dry and liquid gas and naphtha, which is distributed to
Across the country, using supply networks that serve the industrial consumption,
electric, residential and, especially, to the petrochemical industrial processing, resins and
plastics and products along with it, the hydrocarbon industry, whose modernization is
one of the fundamental objectives of the production chain.



We will promote the formation of production chains through the development of partnerships
strategic between the public, private, university laboratories, institutes
research, among others. Solution to the problems of coordination between the links of
these economic circuits and design building plans and identifying supply
demand in the domestic and foreign markets, through CEPLAN.



We will promote the development of productive circuits from mining and prospecting phases of
resource exploration, extraction, concentration, smelting and refining of minerals. In
especially those that cater to domestic markets in that there are products that go to the
processing industries, agriculture and construction.



Strong support to the activities of the fishing circuit comprising the steps of
assessment and measurement of marine and inland aquatic resources, extraction,
processing, marketing in domestic and foreign markets. Vital importance is the
fishing for human consumption and which supplies the circuits with balanced meals and,
Generally, supporting national food security.



We will promote the strengthening of the circuit construction that is the work area
Peruvian natural for engineering, in which domestic firms eslabonen basic materials
construction, basic services of earthmoving machinery, equipment and tools
to the activity itself and finishing materials for multimodal transport in a
sustained program of development of internal infrastructure.



Strengthen productivity centers and technological innovation for which
expand the network level across the country, supported by the private sector, cooperation
international and own small producers and workshop. These centers shall apply
RBM criteria.



We will have that specialized state institutions do pre-investment studies
Markets in new industrial opportunities, cooperation with the private sector and
sources of international technical cooperation, which will be available to organizations
representing entrepreneurs and producers for taking decisions
business.



We will promote economic-productive corridors in regional areas, especially
in areas where cross road infrastructure projects such as roads are made
IIRSA interoceanic south and north, coast-sierra, the Pacific ports and transportation
multimodal, in which the propagation of production technology, will comprising the
technical assistance, training and information for technology transfer; attendance
business in order to improve business management and greater coordination at
market.

132

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU



Strengthen productive competitiveness through multisectoral programs, prioritizing
needs and projects aimed at satisfying the demand for quality products and
Acceptance by national and international consumers, with emphasis on the use
regional and local resources in production.



We will promote business partnerships using regional links and location
geographic and economic corridors in circuits for developing synergies between
and competitive companies, especially in contracts with MYPEs environments.



We will link the gas, oil and all forms of energy, fisheries, mining,
agriculture, forests, forestry and generally of all natural resources to the transformation
productive to develop our internal markets and expand our export capacity
new added values.



We develop a market for technical and financial assistance, with input from the various
Peruvian engineering specialties, economists, technical experts and specialists for
technical assistance, training and specialized services, with emphasis on rural areas and the
entrepreneurship.



We develop a system that includes investment and financing trusts, funds
pre-investment, holding and shares in technical assistance in organized markets
Linked circuits and economic corridors as clusters. Where Finance Corporation
Development (COFIDE) a promoter system will lead business development, especially
MYPEs.



We will promote job training in productive activities based on programs
training for our workers and entrepreneurs supported programs
international technical cooperation and strategic alliances with foreign firms to provide
technology and training to domestic workers and technicians.



Modernize the administrative apparatus of the state to simplify the procedures, making them
agile and timely analysis and optimized process reengineering, making information
systematized and decentralizing management.



Develop active trade defense mechanisms to reduce smuggling,
effectively control the undervaluation, the undercount and counterfeiting customs. Also that
They take care of the implementation of measures against dumping and safeguards in accordance with
rules of the World Trade Organization (WTO).



We implement a higher education system that meets the requirements of
market through quality technical education modeled on SENATI, which is
creation of national industrial promotion and operation of a Service
National Training for the agricultural sector.



We implement a policy of incentive to investment in personnel training, training
professional and technological innovation.



We will promote the partnership between universities and research institutes with the company,
for the development of research for scientific and technological innovation.



Strengthen public institutions related to foreign trade (PromPeru,
SENASA, DIGESA, etc.)

133

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU



Strengthen and promote exports of industrial products with emphasis on
those who contribute to creating new and permanent jobs.



We will promote standardization productive system in which companies simplify their
activities and processes, using engineering methods and internationally competitive,
especially in the area of ​​the Andean Community of Nations (CAN) and the Community
American (CSA).



We apply the ISO 9000 Quality Standards in production circuits to reduce costs and
optimizing production processes. In this way we will make quality a key factor
achieve greater competitiveness.



We will make the rules as the Administrative Law of Silence are effectively enforced
positive, Licensing Framework Law and the Law on Elimination of bureaucratic barriers. Rules
make it easier for companies to comply with requirements of public administration
formalize investments.



He will suggest to the Ombudsman that includes as one of its institutional policies the
monitoring and control of local governments at the national level in implementing the
rules outlined in the corresponding Texts of Administrative Procedures.



We will promote the establishment of Working Groups between local governments, to coordinate
criteria for issuing ordinances, so that these do not create bureaucratic barriers
market access.



Extend support to a motor block consumer activities where the
MYPEs company is essential: circuits manufacturing of clothing, footwear,
furniture, bakery and milling, dairy extenders, among others that will be defined by the
CEPLAN.



Adscribiremos the National Competitiveness Council within the scope of Council President
Ministers to give greater authority and operation of the agreements reached and to work -of
crosswise manner with other sectors of the economy.



We implement an information system through structured databases
Risk and Insurance Center, formalization and development of mortgages, and a new culture
credit articulate productive investment and voluntary domestic savings.



Circuits will promote industrial development around large projects or
natural resources such as Camisea, Bayóvar Biotechnology in Iquitos, etc.

134

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016
5.3.

GANA PERU

MINING SECTOR

The expansion of mining, adding new geographic areas, in the last fifteen years has
grown significantly, topping more than 17,000 million hectares; this advance
territorial has affected farming communities traditionally engaged in activities
farming, so they are one of the population groups most affected.
The conservation of the environment, the use of surface and groundwater resources and
in general, the responsible use of natural resources use are global trends that have
influenced the behavior of different factors related to mining.
The advance and mining expertise has placed this sector in the country's largest exporter
contributing approximately 50% of the currencies, with USD 15,000 million and
average annual growth of 5%. In this sector an investment of 35,000 million estimated
USD approximately the next ten years.
Within this framework of a large-scale growth, serious questions arise
to the way in which environmental impact studies are developed, its technical aspects and
It concurs citizen participation without adequate information to decide the future of the environment
its territorial communities.
The State has been towards promoting investment rather than regulation and / or
effective redistribution. The State has not fulfilled its role and new mining activity in many
cases not sufficiently contribute to local development, causing social unrest, and
known for its insufficient presence; They have proliferated lawsuits alleging services to
mining companies, which in principle belong to the State, such as building
roads, hospitals, schools, etc.
Labor issues in the mining sector has been one of the factors of social conflict; a majority of
the workers are employed in the form of intermediaries (services) that do not work
respect certain rights as bonuses, overtime, utilities, etc. This leads to a
inefficient work by its temporary situation does not receive education or training.
The lack of control and regulation in mining accidents caused in many
cases, not to implement the minimum working conditions for workers, and has
polluted rivers and affected the environment, despite the existence of codes of conduct seeking
Volunteers define performance criteria for the development of its activities; in many
cases, they have not yielded positive results.
The final design of the Ministry of Environment has not met the expectations which might involve the
solving the problems of conflicts between farming communities and populations
surrounding mining communities.
POLICY PROPOSALS

1. It is urgent to plan a broader context, which passes a sectoral perspective, as
Peru is currently the case in the current approvals for mining, which project
project appear outdated address the broader need for a look of character
strategic, from which an ecological economic zoning is defined with statement
productive other protected areas, or ecological conservation.
2. The distribution of economic benefits must be made to a country without adapting
high risk, with political and economic stability, and low inflation. To do this, one of the challenges

135

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

It is the tax issue. The aim is to establish a fiscal and tax policy in the medium and
long term, designed to enable the sector to contribute to paying taxes and benefits against
will correspond to a stage of stability. Will have to be updated royalties, the
canon and the windfall tax. The argument of respect for contracts
by the State it does not sound convincing, although some companies have signed on behalf of the
legal stability, this has never been an impediment to be reviewed under a
scheme responsible and respectful negotiation.
3. Creating an autonomous environmental authority and a new role of the state authority,
fully participatory, decentralized, transparent and accessible, to work for the
conservation and wise use of natural resources, especially water.
4. a fair wage, job training and increasing the share of shall be considered
permanent workers in companies in operation.
5. Technical Training in training workers in the sector to meet on
However, technological innovation needed to raise the competitiveness of the sector.
6. Study the need to create sovereign stabilization funds, to prevent the closure of
operations when prices fall in international prices and the
changes in prices in foreign markets.
7. Incentive policies that increase the added value of the minerals or metals, such as
foundations, rolling, or other.
8. Promote strategic alliances with exporters to create
Non-traditional export industries (eg, phosphate rock, phosphates and fertilizers).
9. To encourage female participation in all activities of the sector
equal conditions in remuneration and working conditions.
10. Public regulation drastic measures be taken to avoid accidents in the
mining activities that may endanger the lives of workers and cause
environmental pollution.
11. Strengthening citizen participation, which must involve communities on the basis
representative organizations, delivering timely, transparent information
appropriate to their questions.
12. The Ministry of Environment should play a role evaluator and oversight of
mining activities in relation to water issues, pollution and reserves
natural, while it must provide mechanisms to fulfill this vital role.

136

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016
5.4.

GANA PERU

FISHERY SECTOR

The Peruvian sea is one of the most productive in the world: its capture rate is about 7.2
million tons average per year, which corresponds to 85% anchovy.
They are produced on average 2.05 million tonnes of products, mainly flour
fish, whose average production is 1.4 million tons and some 600 000
CHD tonnes product (direct human consumption).
10% of the produce is sold locally and the rest is exported. Our exports
fishing and exceeded two billion dollars.
Our fishery for CHD is based on the capture of several species that are used as
raw materials, among which the most important is the anchovy; They follow, in order of
importance, squid, mackerel, horse mackerel, mahi mahi, hake, tuna and swordfish.
Oceanic and climatic conditions are stable, but periodically are altered by
phenomena such as El Niño warm and cold.
The sustainable management of these resources is so monospecific, but with actions
feedback included in the law and regulated by the Institute of the Sea (IMARPE).
The Private Sector Industrial Fishing is very organized, unlike the Craft Sector and
SMEs.
Our aquaculture is incipient, but crops include prawns, scallops,
trout, tilapia and pirarucu.
The fishing fleet is highly concentrated in small pelagic fishing and intended for
flour industry and oil.
There is little capacity to adapt to other types of fishing and species.
A fleet of high and mid-water trawl missing.
PROPOSED POLICY
The Fisheries and Aquaculture Sector Needs:
I

Aquaculture development in principle to create a new fishing industry that is
globally competitive
a) Understand aquaculture as a whole: an activity that integrates culture laboratories
seed, food production, processing for fresh, frozen,
cured and canned.
b) will reduce tariffs and taxes on the transfer of technology.
c) We will promote aquaculture in the Amazon (paiche / tilapia), Sierra (trout) and
Costa (prawns).
d) will design better financing mechanisms.

137

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016
II

GANA PERU

Regulatory Activities
a) Improve the monitoring and surveillance of illegal over fishing our maritime sovereignty.
b) Improve and Control System Certification Health and Fisheries
Products. Simple and practical.
c) Include health management in the landing craft.
d) Maintaining the system of maximum catch limit per vessel.
e) Control in the construction and licensing of artisanal vessels.

III Promoting direct human consumption of marine species
a) Improving infrastructure and equipment in ports.
b) develop a strategic plan for the maintenance of a cold chain for both
integrating internal and external trade at all levels in the industry.
c) Create a marketing plan that encourages the consumption of fishery products based on
a transverse and not by social strata segmentation approach.
d) Training of artisanal fishermen of CHD.
e) Creation of technical courses for the crews of CHD-CHI.
f) Provide tax incentives for the creation of a new fleet of height for the
CHD.

138

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016
5.5.

GANA PERU

TOURISM

The National Tourism Policy pursues the general objective of developing the tourism industry,
equitable, sustainable, planned and competitive, emphasizing the creation and consolidation of
several individual and collective attitudes: awareness of tourist country, awareness of excellence in
services, awareness of transparency, awareness of competitiveness, awareness of work
by tourism convinced of its paramount importance in contributing to combat
poverty, create jobs and improve the quality of life.
Each region or territory is a dynamic system composed of many interacting elements
tangible and intangible. Among the tangible we can mention the population, natural resources,
production, infrastructure and services.
And intangible elements are predominant but the cultural, historical
and social relationships that generate collective feelings of belonging to the local ground,
regional or national.
Peru has natural and cultural, historical and geographical, human and tourism benefits
spiritual, which together offer a variety of investment opportunities of the national capital and
international, small, medium and big in the tourism business.
The quality of the natural environment of Peru, which is explained by the diversity of the landscape, we can say
which it has a consisting of seabed trenches having a depth of
7,000 m 250 km of the coast while the Continental Shelf to 150 km of the coast
with a depth that is less than 150 m. But following a traverse; after 50
km of desert amounts to more than 4,000 meters on a fully rugged terrain in a
average length of 300 km and then descend to 200 meters an average width of 500
km of tropical terrain. On the way up canyons are (such as
Cotahuasi: the deepest in the world) in whose peaks are snowy flanks
permanent; unique phenomenon in the world.
This geographical natural variety allows national and foreign tourists to opt for a
combination of:











Climbing in the Ausangate;
Rafting in the Urubamba river;
Visit the Manu Biosphere Reserve and stay in the Community K'eros;
Tambopata with boating in the canyon of Cotahuasi;
Visit to hydromarin Center Penthouse, flights over the Nazca Lines and Pisco and stay
the Pampa Galeras;
Visit the National Park Huascaran and Chavin;
Know the Strength of Chan Chan, museums and Royal Tombs of Sipan, Sican,
Túcume Brunning;
A tour of the route of Cultures Chimu, Moche, dry forest,
Cajamarca (Inca Baths), Strength of Kuelap and Gran Pajatén.
Visit the Historic Sanctuary of Machu Picchu; Sacred Valley, Moray, Tipon, Pikillaqta,
Raqchi; and the two routes to visit Choquequirau in Cusco.

Not only do these routes, but the whole Peru attached as an echo system, combined with its exceptional wealth
biodiversity, is presented to the world market of ecotourism and adventure nature
and unbeatable unbeatable comparative advantages.

139

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

The goal of the economically active population for the five to be raised from 450,000
current 900,000 jobs for the sector contributes 7% of GDP aspiring to growth
sustained 5%.
It is also important to note that we posesionar Peru as leader in gastronomy
thereby benefiting a significant flow of tourists to the country.
POLICY PROPOSALS

(1) Raise awareness and sensitize society as a whole, about the importance of tourism as
instrument for economic growth, job creation, improvement of the quality of
life of the population and preservation of natural and cultural heritage.
(2) Develop tourism sustainably, meeting the needs of visitors and of
the community that receives them, while protecting and enriching the ecological aspects of
attraction for the future.
(3) Raising the level of awareness to the nation on issues of sustainability
tourism in the country.
(4) Bid National Parks, as the basis of tourism, as they are havens
natural for Ecotourism, Adventure Tourism, Ethno, research, etc. and are the
type of tourism, where the natural or cultural environment plays a dominant role.
(5) provide facilities for investment in tourist services with the goal of putting in
tourism resources value as Kuelap, Gran Pajatén and others.
(6) To promote domestic tourism as an immediate goal, to generate development
links in the chain of tourism: accommodation, quality guides, restaurants and canteens,
quality of guides, transportation, marketing of handicrafts, etc.
(7) To grant facilities to all schools in the country at the secondary level, for the
latest promotions made promotional trips to the countryside, in order to
accentuate the sense of nationalism and love for Peru, which should be regulated by the Law and its
Regulation by the Executive.
(8) We will promote the Northern Tourist Circuit and other alternative circuit to define the
operators, identifying segments of interest to be associated tourism potential of
country. We will also support the design of appropriate products to this demand as
bird watching, water sports, fishing, archeology specialist.
(9) Develop, in addition to the specialized fund, legal and tax framework to attract
domestic and foreign investment to the sector it should include incentives as credits
tax conditional on employment generation and conservation of ecosystems,
in the case of investments in resorts in areas previously selected by
the authority of the sector. The private sector, communities, professionals and civil society
linked to tourism they are offered the commitment to active participation in the protection of
our cultural and natural heritage and the benefit of local populations.
(10) Finally, to develop this sector is essential to improve competitiveness as
Regarding the international and domestic, air and land transport. For it must be
a policy that improves:

Environmental sustainability

Safety

The preparation and training of tourism operators

The training and upgrading of cadres in tourism

140

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

Chapter 6

6.1

GANA PERU

Policies
The horizontal
Strategy
Developing

CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENVIRONMENTAL POLICIES

141
Climate change is a scientifically proven fact that in Peru can be seen without
be knowledgeable on the subject. In the Peruvian Andes they are more than 70% of all glaciers
tropical world, and these are in a process of regression accelerated and visible to the naked
sight.
Climate change substantively affect the hydrology of the rivers that feed the
coastal towns and villages and dramatically affect water availability populations
Andean and high Andean, ie the most vulnerable people in the country.
6.1.1

EFFECTS OF CLIMATE CHANGE ON THE ENVIRONMENT AND POPULATION

It has increased the presence of harmful gases in the atmosphere
Climate change is one of the greatest threats to humanity and especially for
Developing countries like ours. The massive and indiscriminate use of fossil fuels
(Coal, oil and gas) in industrialized countries of the northern hemisphere, mainly,
from the Industrial Revolution to date, it has generated an increase in the presence of gases
harmful to the atmosphere among which are also greenhouse gases
CO2 as combustion products.
These gases have generated adverse local effects as in the case of the presence of
"Smog" in some cities, acid rain in other parts of the world or air pollution
with particulate material we breathe in Lima and there are other effects
global nature such as the rising average temperature of Earth's atmosphere (which in
the last 150 years has risen by almost one degree on average) effect also known as

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

global warming. This has been scientifically demonstrated in the Fourth Report
IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change United Nations) in February 2007.
Oil is an energy that dominates the national energy balance, ie, the call
"Energy mix".
This fuel has become critical to the operation of industries, for
generation of an important part of electrical energy and especially for transporting both
public and private, on land, water and air vehicles. The main problem of this
energy source is that the country has large reserves of it and increasingly has
become a heavy burden on the trade balance in Peru.
It is also the massive use of fuels known by humanity, from the
Industrial Revolution has generated an increase in the density of carbon dioxide, CO2, which is
a product of combustion while greenhouse gas and therefore,
causing global warming.
Physical dependence on oil, the country generated, also managed to become a
dependence fiscal, since a very important part of the collection of
annual taxes has depended and depends on it (IGV and ISC).
Climate change and the deterioration of the regulatory function of glaciers affect
water availability.
In Peru, the effect of climate change are dramatic and visible evidence of how fast
retreating glaciers of the tropical Andes (in Peru are more than 70% of all
tropical glaciers in the world). Environmental services glaciers have consisted
provided to date represent a gigantic system of regulation of rainwater in
as snow and ice, which were released in times of drought and heat in greater
Andes. Changing this situation will have impacts on water availability.
The temperature rise due to global warming will affect biodiversity because
many animal and plant species will migrate some other ecological zones because
higher floors have higher temperature, which can also mean migration
vectors of endemic diseases lower floors to higher floors, such as dengue and
malaria.
The use of hydropower and mining development will accelerate shortages
water.
It is also important to note that at present a large percentage (over 50%) of
the country's electricity is generated using hydropower, which as its name
indicates use water especially in the Pacific basin ranging, ie coast
Peru. Therefore, reduction is expected in the months of low water availability in water
power generation, to supply coastal cities (domestic use,
industrial and commercial), it may also be seriously affected water availability
required for crops for local consumption and for agricultural exports.
The state has no actions set up a defined policy or out of some
statements fragmented and sectoral, to address this situation. However, drives
mining investments, they need water resource for all its operations,

142

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

substantial manner, which will worsen the situation, because it is a concurrent use by agricultural use
and urban, and, moreover, it increases the costs of purification or purification.
Deforestation generates greenhouse gases and climate change.
The Peru generates very little of these greenhouse gases and an estimated contribution
total is just under a half percent of total greenhouse gases are
broadcast globally; and the total emissions, deforestation represented by
our primary forests, representing more than 60% of total national emissions. (The
primary forests act as CO2 sinks of greenhouse gases and removed from the
atmosphere, fixing it as carbon in the trees of the forest). However, the paradox is
that despite being a very small contributor to climate change, Peru, its population, and
especially the lower income rural relative (who depend almost entirely on climate
all productive activities), will be among the hardest hit by the impact of the planet
of climate change.
6.1.2

POLICIES TO FACE THE EFFECTS OF CLIMATE CHANGE

Climate change is affecting and will dramatically affect biodiversity, marine areas
coastal, and agriculture in the country. Therefore, it is urgent to take action in the direction of the
identification of specific vulnerabilities across the country, reaching for all
scientific tools available internationally to determine strategies more
adequate and appropriate public policies to help design measures
transversal adaptation.
Peru must get all possible help from the various bilateral and
multilateral technical and financial cooperation to meet the needs of adaptation
climate change. For example, water shortages will occur in some months
winter in coastal cities, including Lima, must have a solution like
desalination of sea water to supply the missing and it is therefore essential to have a
clean, proper and very accessible cost as is the Camisea gas energy source.


Identify urgent needs and populations that present the highest degree of
vulnerability to the impact of climate change and adaptation measures designed more
appropriate measures to mitigate the effects by increasing resilience (or responsiveness
adverse situations or crisis) populations.



Adopt a policy of reducing emissions of greenhouse gases, which
cover:
a) The incorporation of the reality of climate change in all instances
development planning (district, provincial and regional government).
b) The preservation of the Amazonian primary forests and reforestation of lands
degraded forests.
c) The decrease in consumption of liquid fuels from oil consumption
hybrid vehicles (fuel and electricity), more efficient vehicles (buses instead of
micros) and the conversion of the maximum number of units to natural gas transport
or compressed natural gas vehicle.
d) to promote energy efficiency, reducing waste it. Conduct a
national energy saving process in every consumer sectors:
domestic, residential, transportation, public, industrial, mining, fisheries, and energy;
tend to reduce consumption and / or fuel substitution to reduce

143

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

also environmental pollutant emissions and reduce commercial advantages,
emissions of greenhouse gases that can generate income in the market
international carbon.
e) Stimulate consumption patterns more environmentally friendly, a lifestyle where the
ecological footprint is sustainable.
f) Develop renewable energies to support the rural development of our peoples
urgently, to achieve improved quality of life, production and
productivity in rural areas: small hydro, electricity
with photovoltaic panels, direct use of solar energy water heaters or
cookers, wind power generated by windmills, geothermal energy or
electricity production through the use of biogas from landfills
health, as fuel to meet local needs. These technologies exist
for many years, but the territorial development planning has not taken into
account how it has become necessary to date.


Have, as a measure of energy security, a national network of natural gas
allow supply in each city: a) water (via desalination of seawater) for
urban, industrial and agricultural uses; b) the electrical energy required; c) a
clean fuel for private and public transport of passengers and cargo. In other
words, you can achieve various objectives such as: energy security, safety
food, a substantial improvement in competitiveness, and an array or production system
consumption and less dependent on foreign and cleaner energy, reducing
substantially emissions of greenhouse gases per unit of GDP.



Is very inconvenient that the country too dependent on a product that has to import
increasingly, so the development of natural gas from Camisea represents a
very interesting to change the country's energy matrix possibility, with
positive impact on the trade balance (reduced imported oil) and generating
electricity in bulk through combined cycle turbines. For this becomes
imperative laying natural gas pipelines to the north, center and south of the country
as soon as possible.



Natural gas can be developed as a regional resource and gas networks
Nature can contribute to regional energy integration, reducing risks
shortages and the dangers to the investments required for the development of
energy systems of our country.



Having natural gas along the entire coast of Peru will provide an industry
fisheries very competitive and less aggressive to the environment. It will also allow, in the future
Predictably, the regional gas integration with Bolivia and Colombia. Natural gas, which is a
resource of national character must be developed, also as a resource in the field of
Andean region, so that the natural gas networks contribute to energy integration
regional and local levels, reducing the risk of shortages and consolidating security
energy of each country.



Integrate the knowledge and practice of Andean and high Andean peasants for hundreds
and thousands of years have been developed and implemented local technologies to adapt to and mitigate
negative impact of extreme weather events (frost, hail, drought, rain
torrential, the Boys and Girls), supplemented with scientific knowledge
climate change.



Develop climate change policies articulated with the other member countries of the Andean Community
to address as a block, with greater chances of success, global negotiations

144

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

climate regarding adaptation processes that must be performed so
urgent and urgent in the region.


Strengthen legal and institutional frameworks for the environment, and promote
and invest, in partnership with the private sector in the efficient and sustainable management of
natural resources such as water resource management, management of forests,
biodiversity, agriculture, etc.



Use policy capacity building in environmental management and natural resources
to promote integration among our neighbors.



Implement an environmental information system.

145

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

6.2

GANA PERU

CITIES, HEALTHY ENVIRONMENTS AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT

The provincial developments, young people, cooperatives and associations have been
left to their own devices, without considering that inhabit most families with low
revenues and the new middle classes. This situation only promotes economic development
a sector of Peruvian society and excludes the rest, despite the best efforts of authorities
municipalities that have obligations, but lack of financing and a sufficient number of
human resources and policy. These sectors are the majority in all our cities
medium and large and there's more entrepreneurial support and needy people live.


Therefore, there will be a Ministry of Urban Development to replace its mission and functions to
Current Ministry of Housing, Construction and Sanitation. The Ministry will work to strengthen and
encouraging regional and local authorities to make plans, programs and
projects that are needed for the integrated development of their cities.



We propose to encourage concerted urban planning; the incentive and strengthening
local capacities; the formulation of general laws and specific technical rules for
building and arranging different types of housing; public participation in the
Concerted local development plans and national plans conditioning
territory. We give facilities to generate plans and technical documents needed by
cities, rather than hamper them. We will support the formulation and running Plans
comprehensive improvement of cities and neighborhoods with central government support. The
participatory budgets and acquire their true dimension of being instruments
management and governance of cities.



The neighborhood improvement will be comprehensive and not based on specific projects, which choose
a neighborhood and ignore the -case neighboring urbanization of the Ciudadela Pachacutec in Lima
-. For expanding cities, we will promote urban primary production for
low-income sectors that not only generates an important market, but provides
alternatives to soil invasion processes.



Based on the agreed plans, national programs will operate contestable
support to the formulation of technical files. There will be a fee linked financing
water just to cover all users and business costs. State management
will be associated with the current owners, seeking partnerships with private operators,
according to the scales of the city and the type of company.



At the apex of the system, the National Environment Council is a governing body and
Controller for managing urban and rural environment. He convened the assembly
public and private, local and subnational bodies to build consensus and plans
facilitate and guide the activities of the stocks and the market in general. So we define
sustainable policies for major eco-regions of the country and expedite the national system
of cities. Cities will be the platform of the quality of life and the place where the
families want to live and opportunities to improve their situation and that of the country.



Strengthen the role of SUNASS and other regulatory and supervisory agencies
user participation and subnational governments, generating and transferring
capabilities to them so that they not only made a regulatory work, but
education and support to the formation of regional and local capacities. Cities must

146

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

develop projects for water and sanitation, clean air and waste management with
State support and not defending against auditors without ability to transfer
technologies.


Our actions at home will attend who is building his own house, stress
own for themselves, for their children or to rent, which has never been done in the country so
systematic. We will facilitate the production of social housing in all cities of the country
and the social production of housing bonds, loans and appropriate technical assistance, creating
a great support system who builds their own. We will support the improvement and
extension housing with sanitary structures, finishes and expansion for more housing
in the grounds. Own Roof will redirect the program, which has not been able to
spend the money that you were assigned, to reach young people and
developments.



In the case of housing that families build their own effort, it takes a great
initiative in professional technical support for certification, formalization, and improvement
enlargement. This initiative will require mobilizing thousands of young graduates and professionals,
Special architects, engineers and lawyers who provide technical assistance to families
They require for your effort is rewarded with safe and healthy homes. Young
professionals as well start in the exercise of their profession in their own cities, opening
very important market for them and for the country and strengthening the capacities than ever
they must be torn to municipal governments.



In the case of the so-called social housing, we take the program to the My Home
provincial cities, long neglected by those who only have striven
to serve the market of Lima. This will demand of us the same effort and care to
arrange with local builders who have been afforded the Lima builders.



This means that we will support in achieving their objectives, from small initiative
Private to medium and large homebuilder company when looking
use public money as collateral for their investments are geared to markets
lower income and not vice versa.



The same principle will be applied to the actions of destugurización in cities where
tenements and slums are present. Public funds available should also
serve the actions of urban transformation and renewal areas not
few buildings of historical and monumental character. The people of fifths and
Solar will improve habitat conditions for so proud and productive
in the cities they inhabit.

147

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

6.3

Policies to reduce informality and heterogeneity
PRODUCTION

to)

The Concept of Urban Informal Sector

Sometimes it noted that the urban informal sector covers 50% or 55%
busy urban areas and which generates 60%, 70% or even 80% of economic activity,
or that the sector size is smaller than that figure, but its economic activity is greater, or the
informality is due to excessive labor or tax regulations. Many of these
assertions are totally wrong. If the urban informal sector soportase 50% of employment and
uphold the 70% of economic activity, then the average productivity of the sector would
greater than one, and the Formal Sector (remaining 50% of employment and 30% remaining activity
economic) would be less than one, that is, that productivity would Urban Informal Sector
higher than in the formal sector and therefore the income of the urban informal sector would also be
higher. This is obviously a theoretical absurdity that is not supported or can be supported on the
less empirical evidence.
This confusion, so prevalent in many countries, is that researchers and institutions
Urban Informal Sector defined in very different ways, depending on approaches
economic, social or legal different.
The concept of Urban Informal Sector emerged after the famous "Report on Kenya 'in 1972,
when an ILO technical mission found that unemployment in the country was low, but that
there was a huge contingent of poor workers who had managed to survive,
performing trades with little or no capital, without submitting to the legal standards
force, very costly for them. The members of the ILO mission called this
contingent of working poor as "institutionalized informal sector."
The informal approach based on the report of Kenya was developed subsequently,
late 70s, by the World Employment Programme (WEP) of the ILO, called
PREALC in the case of Latin America and the Caribbean, relating also to theories
structuralist developed, in the case of this region, Paul Singer and Raul Anibal Pinto
Prebisch, among others.
Under this approach, people who manage to not get a job in business
(Capitalists) the modern sector, are forced to work as they can, without major
opportunities for access to productive capital, since they need to survive. That is, a large
number of people living in urban areas -contingente initially originated as
product migration from the countryside to the city - can not find work in the modern sector or
formal economy, and not to fall into unemployment and destitution, to "invent" their
self-employment, using, what has that which is its own activity, and
a very limited use of expensive capital factor is 5. They are, therefore, jobs
labor-intensive, low productivity and low income. It is precisely because of this low
income informal workers, either by itself or account is paid in a
Informal microenterprises can not finance the costs of modernity, including costs
work related to social protection.
The cause of this contingent of people who want to work can not be absorbed by the
modern or formal economy, industry is the structural heterogeneity of the economies
Latin America; heterogeneity characterized by large differences in productivity between
5

To overcome this restriction, many of the policies towards Urban Informal Sector have focused on
facilitate productive loans with low interest rates and several guarantees.

148

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

sectors, "making it more expensive and gradual absorption of informal workers
modern sector "6.
This structuralist approach is different from the dual approach, though on many occasions
often confused with one another. In the dualistic approach, the informal and formal sectors are
because there are people who, because of the failure of the labor market, opting to engage in the
casual or formal sector, as they believe that in the field they choose, be more
production. In the structuralist approach, the choice of informality is not a voluntary choice,
but rather a survival strategy work was impossible to get a job
in the formal sector. The fact that, as will be seen below, the occupational category is used
as variable analysis, it does not mean in any way that workers choose
engage in a particular category because it is the preference, but that deal in it
because it is the only one that found an employment opportunity (or at least a
less bad than others) opportunity.
In the nineties, Hernando de Soto raised a different approach than is the Sector
Informal Urbano, how was born and how it reproduces. For him, informality is the result of the
impossibility for many people, mostly migrants of the field, to access
legality, given the high cost in money and time implies that legality. While the focus of
De Soto has the weakness that ignores the problem of structural heterogeneity that is
behind the phenomenon of informality, it has the virtue of embodying an aspect, high
transaction costs, somewhat absent in the structuralist approaches.
A different approach to the above, but in the same line as the structuralist PREALC,
It is developed by Alejandro Portes, Manuel Castells, Bryan Roberts and others. For them, the Sector
Informal Urban is "the set of income-generating activities that are not regulated by
the state in a social environment where similar activities are. These activities do not
regulated pursue the reduction of costs through the exclusion of the rights and
benefits embodied in legislation and administrative regulations regarding rights
property, business licenses, employment contracts, social security system, etc. His logic
Operation is decentralization "7. In this sense, the urban informal sector is no stranger
to the modern economy, but a substantial element of it, as a strategy for
reducing costs and achieving greater competitiveness.
Another relatively different conception is what has been called Perez Sainz 8 neoinformalidad.
He explains that the urban informal sector is a set of activities carried out in the area
Urban, characterized by owner direct participation in the production process.
The conceptualization that made the World Employment Programme of the ILO's "Informal Sector
Urban "is very different from" informal economy "that the ILO itself made a few years ago
(2002). The new definition refers not to the characteristics of jobs but rather to
production units, be they self-employed, whether businesses. The
informal would feature in those production units which do not apply, Total
or part of the legislation. This "deprotection" rules would cause a certain
decent work deficit. Consequently, it is generated, with this definition of "informal economy"
V. Tokman a voice in the way. Employment and Equity in Latin America: 40 years of research (page 197).
Fondo de Cultura Economica. Santiago de Chile, 2004
7
Trejos, JD. Decent work and the urban informal sector in Central American countries. ILO. Saint
José de Costa Rica, 2001.
8
Perez Sainz, Juan Pablo. Neoinformalidad in Central America. FLACSO. San Jose, Costa Rica, 1996.
6

149

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

confusion between informality and precariousness avoidance of regulatory compliance
legal force.
Finally, in the light of these definitions, and on the basis of the recommendations of the Group
Delhi, consisting of experts from different countries studying industry statistics
casual, the seventeenth International Conference of Labour Statisticians (ICLS), held in 2003,
approved guidelines concerning a statistical definition of informal employment to supplement the
Resolution concerning statistics of employment in the sector. In this definition, the concept of
informal employment is used as the total number of informal jobs, whether they are busy
in enterprises in the formal or informal sector.
Despite this change in the definition of informality, going from concept to sector
informal economy, the use of the definition as well as the focus of the informal sector, has
undoubted advantages.
First, another advantage of using the definition of Urban Informal Sector and not to
Informal economy makes the first connection to a structural surplus of labor
generating economic activities based on low capital-labor ratio, with
consequent low levels of productivity and income. This narrow definition, facilitates the adoption
Public policies aimed at facilitating access for these people to a greater supply of
-human, financial and technological-capital and, therefore, with the potential to increase
productivity and incomes. In the case of the new ILO definition, for economy
informally, the "classic" Urban Informal Sector members joined workers
unprotected, they can work in the formal sector (which in Argentina is called "work
in black "). It is, it is a definition that sum informality job insecurity,
very different phenomena, unrelated, and that also require public policies
very different.
Second, by consenting to the definition of informal economy workers coexist
formal to informal (ie, workers with precarious or unregistered) in a company
formal, would have to accept that part of the production of the company corresponds to work
Moreover the formal and the informal.
Neither seems the definition of informality of De Soto useful because, recognizing that the
Informality is a high component of high transaction costs that sets the legality
in effect, it ignores the profound structural heterogeneity that characterizes both the economy
as the labor market of Peru.
b)

Policies to reduce informality and productive heterogeneity

The urban informal sector is also a heterogeneous set of production units and, at
Therefore, they differentiated for each of the components of that set policies are needed. They
here distinguish three types of informal units.
On one side are the production units with reduced access to productive resources and,
Thus, with low productivity and income, but they are able to finance themselves,
at least in part, the cost of the legality or formality (taxes, labor costs, taxes,
etc.).
Moreover, the units are operating outside the law, without records
administrative and legal and tax-free; all it associated mainly to the

150

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

high transaction costs generated by state regulations. In practice, these two
types of informality and have extensive relationships coexist. However, as it is clear,
not all units have low productivity problems of legality, and not all
companies outside the scope of the regulation are low productivity. Both share the
feature in them the quality of work is quite precarious.
Third, informal workers are self-employed and family units
subsistence, all with the lowest levels of productivity and income of the entire structure
Urban occupational.

1. With regard to the informal units that can be financed, at least partially, the costs
transaction.
In the case of these units it is necessary to act in at least three priority areas.
First, they should design and implement policy strategies that facilitate greater access
informal markets and services, in particular the credit market MSEs, the
training, business strategies, quality and information, to increase their presence and
market share, increase productivity and create and maintain good jobs
quality.
Furthermore, it is important to design and implement strategies to encourage micro and small
to join informal clusters productive enterprises. To do this, it could be
especially effective offer some incentive to companies that constitute the core of
conglomerate to promote the incorporation of micro and small empresas9.
Moreover, it is necessary to address the problems arising from the low rate of social protection
of workers in these informal MSEs. To do the different programs to be assessed
developed in Peru and other countries (microinsurance program, municipal, etc.) and see
its applicability in the country, if they had been successful programs.
However, in this same category of informal units are also those
companies that are actually formal but which can finance the cost of legality, choose
to act outside it, in order to gain an advantage over their competitors who respect the
law. Obviously in this case the policy which should be applied is also related to the
education and prevention of such practices, identifying those companies and
application of appropriate sanctions.

2. Regarding the informal units that do have access to productive resources although
they are not abundant, but can not finance the transaction costs imposed by
legal and administrative regulations.
In this case it is clear that to proceed to analyze the impact of these regulations, as
There is sufficient evidence that an excess of regulations promotes informality and evidence in the case
formal enterprises, unregistered employment.
However, this should not lead to consider evasive to informal MSEs (which, incidentally,
involves strategies such as deregulation or prosecution), but that "it should be remembered that
the main cause of these informal units do not meet their obligations, is its
inability to fund such compliance costs involved, given their levels of
Current productivity. The challenge, then, is to outline strategies to generate the
9

See Hemispheric Agenda. ILO, 2006

151

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

conditions for informal may face costs representing
compliance with administrative, tax and tax obligations 10. For this, the
administrative simplification, the exemption of some tax burdens and programs as
already implemented in many countries to develop business service centers
(Solidarity credit, training, technology support, market identification, etc.) could be a
good solution "11.
Moreover, the Ministry of Labour should pay particular attention to the income gap
existing between men and women, especially in sectors where most people focus
informal jobs, designing and implementing policies of positive discrimination
directly encourage the woman. In this field, very studied and implemented policies
regarding government procurement could be a good way to help women raise their
income.
The problem with these strategies was neither their design or implementation, but rather its
durability because, in many cases, a change of administration causes a review of
administrative processes that makes you go back in an instant much more advanced in
several years. It is therefore important to ensure the retention time of these policies and
strategies logical changes and adjustments resulting from periodic recommended
evaluations thereof.

3. As for the self-employed and informal family units
subsistence.
First, policy design and implementation should pay special attention to activities
where informal workers concentrate on their own. That is, activities
corresponding to the sectors of retail trade, personal services, including the service
domestic. The other sectors are important but not a priority.
Second, these three sectors of economic activity, policies oriented
activities in informal trade and domestic service should have components
specifically aimed at addressing the situation of women, since they are activities that
predominantly female work. In particular, these policies should address the low level
education of women working in these sectors and the family burden that requires them to attend
children together at home and work. A substantial part of these policies should be the
Special educational programs for women, child care, and so on.
Third, the income of the informal self-employed and family units
subsistence, are lower than those of other workers in the same sector. This presents a
serious problem in productivity, since the earned income depends
the medium and long term productivity. Priority should be given, therefore, policies and programs
aimed at increasing the productivity of informal self and units
family subsistence, like the rest of informal workers. To do this, and like
in other informal production units, could be a good solution, the
administrative simplification, the exemption of some tax burdens and programs as
already implemented in many countries to develop business service centers
(Solidarity credit, training, technology support, market identification, etc.).

10
eleven

Ibid
Ibid

152

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

Fourth, we must deepen the efforts of the State in education. In this
effort, women working in the informal sector, especially in street vending and
in domestic service, they should merit the highest priority.
Fifth, this group should focus when designing public policies transfer
revenue through national or regional programs financed social spending
Been.
Finally, it is a priority to develop the tax office and work, in order to detect and
punish those professionals who, being formal and must act in accordance with the rules
legal, to evade the self-employed, and informal, lowering costs, to be well
more competitive than other professionals who do work subject to the regulations.

153

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016
6.4

GANA PERU

SMEs IN THE NEW BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY

The sector of micro and small enterprises12 (SMEs) have a focal role in the structure
productive country. According to estimates by the Ministry of Labour and Employment Promotion
(PETM), 98% of total formal production units in the country are micro or small
companies (94% and 4% micro small) which contribute about 35% of Product
Gross Domestic (GDP) generated around 80% of private employment and represent around 3.2%
of total exports.
The density of capital per person in MSEs is low. This is reflected in much
these lack their own means of production. Compared to that of the great activities
mining, the cost per job is less unit between thirty and forty times. The processes
production of MSEs have a high component of labor whereby the
productivity measured as the cost factor between the total value of sales is very low,
the use of low quality and often subsistence or self-employment.
Revenues barely enough to reward the purchase of inputs and workmanship at
hardly it supports employment costs, taxes and imposts, cumulative process
away from the formality of medium and large enterprises. They also have less access to
technology development and business expansion in a long-term perspective. They are in
sum, excluding the mode of production and accumulation of capital.
Also companies face barriers of state regulation. Between them:
1. Very little access to the formal financial system and guarantee schemes, which limits their
opportunities for business growth.
2. Impossibility of being a supplier of major companies or the public apparatus.
3. Difficulties of becoming an exporter.
However, MSEs are the main providers of goods and services sectors
lower revenues. These production units using domestic inputs essentially what
resulting in small but numerous productive circuits that explain the higher contribution of
MYPEs the real sector of the national economy (production and employment).
A defining characteristic of MSEs (especially micro) is its high degree of
informality. 86% of MSEs are informal. It is basically units
family members who struggle every day to survive. In this regard, about 30% of people
MSBs are employed by unpaid family workers (unpaid family workers). Therefore, to spend
to propose policies in the MSEs sector is essential to raise the issue of informality which in
ultimately it leads to pose an alternative to the current economic model.
Policy proposals


12

Will significantly reduce the costs of formalization and those desburocratizaremos
processes. It will be continued, and will encourage public policies and regulations will be corrected
to simplify the paperwork (municipal and notarial) for the constitution
New Business. In this regard, it is proposed to operate under a system of one-stop shop
allow the effective reduction of transaction costs.

We use the criterion of number of employees (microenterprise: 1 to 10 workers; small business:
11 to 50 employees) and annual sales level (microenterprise: maximum amount of 150 ITU;
Small business: from 150 to 850 ITU ITU)

154

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU



We are committed, in accordance with the technological institutions and universities
domestic, to provide technical assistance and technical, job training and credit.



We will support the process of capital accumulation in the MSBs with the creation of a
Decentralized Public Organization (OPD) for Micro and Small Enterprises. The agency
It will concentrate exclusively all the functions and responsibilities for planning and
development of public policies on Micro and Small Enterprises. Its main
features are:
 It will have within their internal organizational structure with a political body in which
involving representatives of each economic sector to give representation to each
one of them and carry valid partners.
 You will have skills to plan national policies together s
with regional and local governments.
 The institutional budget of this new body will be to source resources
all budgetary allocations for MSEs in each of the sectors. East
financing mechanism that responds to the concentration of funds allows
efficient management of these and centralize management of the funds collected from the
International cooperation.



Formulation of legislation that provides that any business venture must
made through any of the forms of legal person providing the
legal system.



Creating a new form of special legal person that fits the needs
of micro-enterprise projects: the new company.



We will facilitate and promote the creation of productive networks with added value
through MSEs, with an export orientation and / or to internal markets
food security.



Promotion of a credit program and biddable technical assistance will be focused
projects of young entrepreneurs. This program will include scholarships for technical training
in agreement with the National Technological Development Service (SENATI) and the National Service
Training for the Construction Industry (SENCICO).



Strengthen financial support to small and micro enterprises provided by
EDYPIMES specialized financial institutions, rural banks and savings Municipal
Savings and loan, equivalent funds, cooperation agencies, creating an instance of
cooperation specializing in micro technology.



Strengthen the FOGAPI to extend their guarantees for the purpose MYPEs
they can modernize and become more competitive.



Also, we will strengthen PROMPYME and CONSUCODE to be channeled demands
of goods and services entities and state enterprises for national MSEs.



We will promote and strengthen the participation of the National Bank in financing
small and medium enterprises through its network of agencies and in places where
It is the only bank offering. The National Bank should thus contribute to
development of financial intermediation, market competitiveness and credit
expansion of banking, mobilizing savings nationwide.



On the issue of government procurement the following points are proposed:

155

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU




Law by creating a special procedure for purchases to the new company.
The State shall reserve 40% of their purchases to perform them to the New Companies
with preference for local.



Grants of benefits related to the issue of guarantees faithful
compliance, as assignments of rights to future revenues, in order
to allow full access for new companies to government procurement.
We will promote transparency and efficiency in government procurement through
gradual incorporation of citizen participation in procurement committees, the
online distribution and modification of the law on state procurements
to streamline processes and give full transparency.





Establish the plan of technological empowerment and capacity management,
program to promote small business and agri-family specialized programs, such as
camelids development of the tuna-cochineal, Andean cereals,
tuberous, of fattening and slaughter cattle, camu camu, paiche, organic coffee, tara,
clover, formant, among others.



We will facilitate the titling assets in the public record for helping SMEs to use
as collateral for seeking loans.



Emission standards for each sector of economic activity in which it operates
entrepreneurship, to address the problems in a specialized way in each
one of them. For example: craftsmanship, metal, among others.



We will promote the participation of companies in the capital market that help
order and openness of information, access to new forms of financing
lower cost, and improve the perception of risk. To create alternatives participation
companies in the stock market, measures should be taken to minimize the following
overruns:
 Registration in the Public Registry of Securities Markets.
 emission trading instruments (bonds) for third party involvement.
(Risk rating agencies, structuring, dealer, representatives
Bondholders).
 excessive requirements for issuers accessing the securities market.
 Application of corporate governance rules, often rare in companies
family shareholding.
 Creating an instance of cooperation in technology specializing in microcredit.

To incorporate companies and MSBs in the capital market:


We will promote the broadcast media or guarantee instruments (Charter Guarantee Securities or
Deposit Securities), through the participation of networks of sectoral organizations, multisectoral,
national and international (COFIDE, FOGAPI, CAF).



Creating a regime that is a guarantee fund, managed by Corporation
Financiera de Desarrollo (COFIDE), which ensures the operations of the New
Companies in the financial market of private banking.



We will promote the uptake of lines of credit and working capital contribution, debt swaps,
development of specialized investment funds and trusts, which provide access to investors
Qualified institutional, placement of debt at attractive rates entrenched

156

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

by guarantee instruments for SMEs which are valued with the participation of savings
mobilized by the BVL.


We will regulate the requirements, costs and deadlines for issuing debt instruments for SMEs
to promote their participation in the market.



Implementation of agreements between public and private companies with the Superintendency of
Banking and Insurance (SBS) and the private credit bureaus, to create a curriculum of
entrepreneurs who operate through new businesses. In this way it will contribute
with basic information to help provide tools to the financial system towards
granting credit lines required by the MSEs.



We will reduce the cost of access to the Public Registry of Capital Markets for SMEs,
by regulations for the registration and issuance of new tradable instruments
through the BVL (Notes SMEs, SMEs Negotiable Papers, Bonds SMEs, etc.) whose
characteristics would agree with the term negotiation mechanism.



Implement applications in regulatory standards negotiation mechanisms
facilitate the operations of MSEs in the capital market, and the easing of registration
the titles of short-term debt, such as invoices and trading.



Modify the regulation of investment in non-bank financial intermediaries,
allowing their participation in these new investment instruments and mechanisms
negotiation. This will boost the bond market, as well as give new and better
performance alternative mechanisms covering risks for which
They are supervised and monitored.

157

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016
6.5

GANA PERU

Renegotiate FREE TRADE AGREEMENTS

The wave of globalization skewed the emphasis of economic policies of our countries to
external markets. The result was the seizure of our domestic markets to groups
Transnational just as the economic performance of the highly industrialized countries
more dependent on exports.
The neoliberal globalizers and the country do not understand that productivity and technical change is a
macroeconomic phenomenon. Therefore they advocate outsourcing work and casualization
wage as a means to increase productivity and international competitiveness.
This strategy of reducing labor costs to gain market shares
External tends to reduce the size of the domestic market because income or compressed
purchasing power of workers.
Furthermore, the strategy of neoliberal globalizers to reduce labor costs for
increase productivity and competitiveness emphasizes the distributive conflict and exacerbates exclusion
and social and economic marginalization.
That strategy is not the way to build harmonious international relations. It will generate more
trade disputes between nations that emphasizes participation in trade
international or foreign markets than in domestic markets.
The agenda of inclusive growth in the country with a new way to grow, generating
domestic markets, increasing employment and adding to the market and the excluded population
provincial country, is moving from the inside out, without closing the world without creating
external deficit and inflationary pressures.
Hence an incomes policy that uses the minimum wage as a tool has more
chances of success in an economy that grows with increases in productivity that one in
back production and employment which are precarious. Demand orientation
internal to the expansion of domestic markets is a precondition to mitigate conflicts
distributive.
The argument put forward in favor of free trade is that it favors the
consumer because international competition leads to lower costs and improve quality
products. But this argument is incomplete. The welfare of the consuming population
improve the competition between producers when the market size is reduced
home about the negative effects on income and employment, and dynamically seen,
creating inhibits other.
If the size of the domestic market and declining economic activity, as the
foreign producers capture a large portion of it, the welfare of
domestic consumers will have to fall due to reduced employment and income.
Only under the assumption of full employment, international competition may not affect levels
occupation of the workforce.
Moreover, high levels of unemployment and underemployment, it is not possible efficient use
resource. Consequently, the argument that free trade improves welfare
consumers through more efficient allocation of resources, is questionable.

158

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

There is another way to insert in today's globalized world. Because we believe that it is possible another
Peru kind of relationship with the world, we propose:
a) The Congress installed in July 2011 should review and approve the FTA renegotiation in
if necessary.
b) Develop a new international, commercial and economic relations, with emphasis on
relations with Latin America, China and developing countries, and negotiations
multilateral in which we can join them to have more strength.
c) Specifically, it is proposed to strengthen regional integration in the Andean Community and MERCOSUR
then develop trade negotiations with other regional blocs and the WTO itself.

159

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

Chapter 7

7.1

GANA PERU

Social Policy,
Human rights,
Safe life
Social Peace

SOCIAL POLICIES TO ASSERT RIGHTS

The proposal from the Great Transformation seeks to contribute to the development of our country,
welfare for the entire population. And therefore it believes that a unity between the model is required
economic and social and therefore claims that the best foundation for social policy is a growth
with economic redistribution (with an emphasis on salary) and internal accumulation. As already
noted in previous chapters, not just to grow and distribute but a
national development strategy requires internal accumulation in human and physical capital
financial. But a comprehensive development also means addressing the environmental dimension and the
institutional, hence these issues have also been covered in previous chapters.
The proposal from the Great Transformation says a human rights approach in which the person is the
Finally, as stated in the Constitution, and in this regard the proposed social policy is geared
to guarantee the exercise of these rights by all citizens of Peru,
universal way to achieve the full development of their capabilities and potential.
In addition, our proposal is based on an equity approach, which means looking
meet with specific policies, various factors of discrimination and exclusion affecting
our society.
The vision of development and the rights approach we propose, is also a way
different understanding of poverty, from multiple dimensions, not only as poverty
economic but also as a restriction on access to basic living conditions, as
limitation on the full development of the capacities of individuals and opportunities for
adequately perform as well as their chances of participation, individual and
collective in society. Therefore, social policies proposed to overcome have
to be comprehensive and that relief policies must be policies that contribute to enabling
expand opportunities, breaking down barriers and restrictions and creating favorable conditions for
individuals and families facing their own development and may participate in the decisions that
affected.

160

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

Therefore, to measure progress in terms of welfare and poverty alleviation only
in terms of reducing income poverty rates it is totally inadequate and up
misleading, therefore, to assess whether or not progress has been made in this period and how much should
other indicators observed as equity in income distribution and access to
opportunities.
While in recent years it has continued a downward trend in results
monetary poverty is still at high levels (35 out of 100 Peruvians are poor and
11 out of 100 are extremely poor), especially if we take into account economic growth
in recent years. The situation is worse in rural areas especially in the jungle and the two
ends of the age pyramid (children and seniors). In the case of rural areas,
according to figures from INEI 2009 60.3% of the rural population is in situation
monetary poverty. In the rural coast this rose to 40.6%, while in the jungle
rural highlands is 57.4% and 65.6% respectively. On the other hand, the incidence of caloric deficit
It has increased in all areas of the national economy, 2006 to 2009: from 28% to 30%
urban and from 38% to 45% in rural area. Only in Lima there was a slight
improvement (it increased from 20% to 18%).
On the other hand, if we look at the issue of inequality and we see beyond inequality
income, as does the last measuring human development index of UNDP,
evidence that inequality by incorporating variable in broad terms, the rate is reduced in
For our country, 0723-0584 (down 20%), and what's behind this
inequality situation in access to health and education, while income inequality
It lags.
Finally, it should also assess how the State intended to guarantee rights
social of the population and if those amounts are commensurate with the level of economic growth that has
had the country in this period and in comparison with the region. According to the Commission
Economic Commission for Latin America (CEPAL), by 2008 public social spending in Peru
It amounted to 7.82% of GDP, the lowest registered in the countries of South America level.
This situation must change.
Below we propose our diagnosis and our proposals for different fields
social policy aimed at guaranteeing the social rights of the population, to combat
poverty and inequality and to overcome discrimination and exclusion in different
demonstrations.
OUR PRIORITIES
Our focus in social policy, because of their particular vulnerability, the
existing services and social indicators for these sectors and their importance gaps
for the future development of the country are the rural peasant and indigenous population,
children and the elderly.
Our plan gives priority for both these sectors, and this is evidenced not only in what is proposed
Then relative to each, but each of the specific fields
They present from the following section.
Rural areas:
Beyond the effort in the social field by giving priority to rural areas, through the
Growing Together program and strategy, it is clear disinterest shown by the State in the

161

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

recent years by developing coherent and articulated proposals that respond to the diversity and
complexity of this reality and the need to ensure food security.
Particularly forgotten is the Amazonian world (where the rural reality weighs
majority) which has not received specific policies of this government and those that are
They developed within the framework of the dialogue tables installed from the events of Bagua, not
They have been put into practice.
An important aspect of this is to develop a new consensus on the concept of rurality
in the country, which is certainly much more than the National Institute of Statistics and Informatics
(INEI) raises. This first step is essential for better institutions and policies
allowing take up the challenge of these areas, and designing interventions that address
take advantage of the urban-rural relations in order to achieve greater progress in
overcoming poverty in these areas.
An important reference to go to a policy such as that required for this level,
It is the agenda for the integral development of the rural population and poverty reduction
raised by the Roundtable for Poverty Reduction (MCLCP), which outlines five
strategies in social, economic, environmental and institutional dimensions, and proposes goals,
orientations and actions for each of them, which are committed to implement.
The childhood:
The efforts and initiatives deployed since the society to care for children an
national priority have been increasing in recent years. This has certainly affected the progress
that has occurred at the state level in the coordination of actions and commissioning
up programs to address some key issues such as chronic malnutrition,
attention to maternal and neonatal health, improving learning in the early years and
undocumented children, though it is insufficient, problems not only persist
and besides that little progress has been made regarding other issues play
such as serious violence against children.
In that sense, to have a common agenda to mobilize citizens and the State
for children, the updating of the National Plan of Action for Children and is required
Adolescents (PNAIA) with participation of civil society. In this respect, the last balance sheet of the
PNAIA objectives by UNICEF shows mixed results in achievement of
the goals proposed by this plan.
The action for children in the next period should prioritize comprehensive care
problems of children and include a budget estimate for
implementation, against this explicit commitment to assign resources arises
necessary governance in the next five years.
Older adults:
This problem, somewhat unknown to most of society has not deserved more
attention from the State. Although on several occasions, both in Congress and in the
Executive, the possibility of implementing non-contributory pensions mentioned, has not taken a
concrete progress in this regard in our country, as if it has happened to our neighbors (cases
Chile and Bolivia, for example). The recent announcement by the President of the Republic of start delivery
a bonus of 100 soles to those over 75 years is still a timid step in this regard.

162

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

It is anticipated that the proportion of adults over 65 will increase from 6% in 2007 to 16%
2050, representing an increase in the average conditions of social vulnerability. In that
meaning intends to begin implementation of this policy, starting with the elderly
75 years and progressively to cater for all adults over 65 level
national who do not have a pension.
OUR PROPOSAL
Social policy primarily includes the actions taken by the State through services
social universal and targeted programs that target particular populations
in poverty or exclusion. In that sense, this chapter, in a first part
will present the policies of education, health, housing, water and sanitation, labor and welfare
social, in a second part the social and political equality programs to be addressed,
targeting specific sectors.

163

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

7.2

GANA PERU

FOR FUNDAMENTAL RIGHTS

7.2.1 QUALITY EDUCATION FOR ALL
to)

Diagnosis:

There remains a serious deterioration in the quality of education is reflected in the learning outcomes.
Each year, thousands of students do not meet the minimum performance levels that curricula
established to achieve the appropriate level skills. National tests and
International Programme for the International Student Assessment (PISA 2001),
Second Regional Comparative and Explanatory Study (SERCE, 2006) and census assessments
between 2006 and 2009 bear this out.
Continued educational inequity. The Second Regional Comparative and Explanatory Study (SERCE)
made between 2001 and 2008 -sponsored by UNESCO and considered assessment
more ambitious performance held in Latin America ranks Peru as the country's
inequitable, with major urban-rural disparities, and between countries where girls
reach rural and indigenous children significantly lower performance. The
national assessments reveal a problem of quality of learning in all grades
They studied, and less learning reconfirm the poor, women, and Quechua speakers
students of the field.
The education system does not provide the necessary elements for that Peruvians can we
play with autonomy in the construction of social welfare. A way to get wins
the globalization process that subjects us to foreign interests, who do not consider our
cultural values ​​and knowledge, but we take into account as cheap labor, or
simple circuit excluded from production and consumption outside our control. This exclusion
reached very acute levels with the dominance of the neoliberal project to design an integration
world of a small minority that only requires an equally small portion of the
educated population. This, however, conflicts with the demand of millions of Peruvians
properly educated and thus have the tools to carve
a future. The inefficiency of our educational system and the reality of globalization, leads
Hence the need to redefine the struggle for the right to education.
There is also a chronic disconnect the education system as a whole (in particular the level
)-university higher labor market. In the past 50 years has been experiencing
multiplication of races saturated market where almost all universities want to have
offered several of the races, which responds to a distortion of expectations rather than
real demand. It has multiplied by 10 the number of universities and 20 the amount of
students. The university in the country does not meet the market demands and / or needs
from the country. Today, the university does not fulfill its basic functions of production
knowledge, training, technical training and outreach.
The cause of this is the abandonment of education by those who have governed
historically the country. It has not interested them educate the masses because it was not necessary for
they implemented economic models. The expansion of the education system was the product more
social and political movements for the right to education of governments. The interest
He was on expanding coverage without paying attention to the quality of the results.
An example of this lack of interest is expressed in the fact that Peru is one of Latin
America invests less in higher education. Thus, in 2006, Peru spent 0.89% of GDP to
higher education while Chile 1.79%, 1.31% and Mexico. On the other hand, expenditure on

164

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

basic and applied as a percentage of GDP, research fall by 70% over the last thirty
years. That is multiply the supply and quality is reduced to fall in the current situation.
We have, paradoxically, in a country with limited resources a problem of supply of low quality
and not demand as it used to happen in college.
Also, since 1996 with the approval of the Legislative Decree 882 of the Promotion of
Private investment in education, universities have proliferated-company or universities
profit organization that supposedly respond to market demand for education
university. There are about fifty of these universities and a number of
subsidiaries, which seem to be counted by the hundreds, both private and state universities, but
They have as a starting point the "liberalization" of the university market. Moreover, according to
Figures from the National Assembly of Rectors (ANR) for 2007, private universities
have more students than the state, 57% versus 43%, a situation contrary to the trend
historic. But counter to what its promoters say, these universities not
respond to market demands but, in most cases, the desire of business
fast from their owners. These are not interested in the nature of a public institution or university,
as evidenced by the results, knowledge creation as its primary activity. They
is cheap universities that promote careers with part-time teachers and students
recruited without rigorous academic selection.
Since 2006, the APRA government has addressed three problems but blunder: politics
teaching, changes in management (focusing on the theme of municipalization) and literacy.
Has recognized the importance of a Public Educator revalue the profession
teachers and improve their capabilities and performance. But the issue has been reduced to challenged
Teacher evaluations should serve to finally appoint teachers and boost
new teaching career. In practice, this policy provoked distrust and reluctance of
teachers, resources are not guaranteed to improve the salaries of those who enter the system,
and evidence fell on improvisation and even in shady dealings of the results.
On the other hand, educational decentralization is trapped and should focus on
strengthening the autonomy of educational institutions with policies to stimulate the
participation to ensure greater quality and equity in each region and locality. The
municipalization of basic education was a big announcement at the beginning of the current government,
important implications for educational management and participation. However, nearly four years
Later, there are no signs that the stage of pilot schemes has surrendered enough fruit to
move to the stage of broad implementation in accordance with the lessons learned. Furthermore,
municipalization was decided arbitrarily and without taking into account the process of
ongoing decentralization of government or decentralization processes underway in the own
sector. As for participation, the decentralization is not associated with processes
transcend formal consultations and seek to incorporate the community as active partners in the
improving education.
On the issue of literacy, the APRA government figures mentioned spectacular advances in the
National Mobilization Programme for Literacy (PRONAMA). However, it has been
question the supposed achievements of a program that has not been supported or consulting
specialized organizations in the educational subject and has been criticized even by UNESCO. Do not
clearly it defined a baseline of how many illiterates benefit sought and figures
literate were published without explaining how they had accomplished.
b)

Policy proposals:

165

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

Education is critical to the viability of our country, we need to conduct a
Educational Revolution. We need to complete the outstanding coverage and increase drastically
quality of the educational service provided.
The Education Revolution is part of a comprehensive democratic transformation
Peruvian society, implemented by a citizens' movement for education that is
expression of the will (which now does not exist in the country) to change and improve education. He
citizens' movement for education should include the school community-teachers, parents
and students, but also beyond it, where women and men can be made
as people and citizens in freedom and ability to access the necessary resources
for development. The citizen movement must be the way to overcome the lack of importance
that education has for the ruling political class, to give his real status and allow
It is considered a national priority.
The axis of a citizen movement must be a social and political agreement for education, which
industry claims policy as a state policy and give you a long-term perspective
go making the necessary changes. This social and political agreement must have as its basis a
joint efforts by civil society and political parties to make participation
policies are effective and sustainable over time.
Revalue the National Education Project (PEN) as a state policy (which APRA government does not
It has been implemented) as the proposal for greater social and political consensus in recent years. He
PEN is a good starting point for educational reform as part of a
comprehensive program of democratic transformation of Peruvian society, making our their
six major strategic objectives to 2021:
Objective
Objective
Objective
Objective

1:
2:
3:
4:

Educational opportunities and outcomes of equal quality for all.
Students and institutions that achieve quality and relevant learning.
Well prepared teachers teaching professionally engaged.
A decentralized, democratic, that achieves results and is financed with
equity.
Objective 5: The quality higher education becomes a favorable factor for development
and national competitiveness.
Goal 6: A society that educates its citizens and committed to their community.
A vital point in the realization of education policy is the budgetary priority. She has been
already covered under the National Accord (2002), where he stated that the sector
Education must be assigned 6% of GDP in 2011, with annual increases of not less
0.25%.
The real changes in Peruvian education have a participatory-democratic content,
where the protagonists must all citizens, taking as basic the following
commitments and lines of action:
 Implement educational activities from an intercultural perspective. Seeking education
for life in a diverse and multicultural country, it needs to assert its identity and exercise
tolerance as a fundamental value that goes in the direction to close the gaps that limit
the full development of each of the inhabitants of the country, with particular attention to areas
rural. In our society, marked by conflict and asymmetric power relations
between members of different cultures, multiculturalism becomes imperative to achieve
just society. The educational commitment to multiculturalism and biodiversity of
finding de facto relationships and long-term claims of a world that no unviable
assume its diversity as richness and potential.

166

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

Enforce urgent measures to improve the implementation rate and quality
sector spending. Free up more resources to increase annual spending per student in
2007 was only US $ 479 in primary school, compared to US $ 2.120 destined for it in Chile.
Ensure increased funding for public universities, gradually increasing the
Recent years 0.36% to 1% of GDP.
 prioritize the quality of education, emphasizing the initial level and the first years of
primary because of its impact on later school performance. It should aim to
all students achieve skills for personal and civic development, and
for progress and national integration. Educational institutions must offer
student learning relevant and diverse productive life of the community and the country.
It should guide the joint system of basic education and higher than the objectives
national development, forming technical and ethical professional, competent and productive.
 Review the system for evaluating the Public Educator implemented by the
Current government towards a comprehensive system of teacher training. Be reconciled
teachers with the state, improve the remuneration status of all teachers in the measure
If permitted by the current resources, but also implement an Integrated System
Teacher Training. You should design a training system articulated evaluations
serious for that well-trained teachers access (and have incentives to want
access) to a renewed Public Educator.
 eradicate illiteracy implementing literacy programs and intercultural
promoting the support of specialized organizations for consistent results
in that historical national problem.
 Create the material and spiritual conditions for the participation of local governments
in education taking into account the process of decentralization. The
various levels of government (regional and municipal central) must share responsibility
educational policies and in each of these levels should be achieved an important place
for public participation in determining these policies and management
schools.
 Retrieve the university as a public institution, regardless of whether their promoters are
state or private. Public institution in the sense that provides public services such as
vocational education, research and outreach.
 Conduct a new university reform that is based on a new law
University with a common approach for all universities (public and private) after
many years of having multiple standards, often contradictory; so what
contains the following:
to. Evaluate and make an active and transparent monitoring of the relationship between cost and impact
of the various educational programs and projects underway. Public universities
They must have a basic allowance to cover their running costs, an allocation
Further according to the assessment by the National Council of Universities and
special allocations for infrastructure projects and equipment. The
private for-profit universities that do not reinvest their profits, they must pay the
respective taxes.
b. For undergraduate university teacher is needed at least master's degree and
for university teaching graduate degree of doctor you are needed. Teachers who
do not meet the respective degrees have to be determined
category or teach at a particular level of education have five years to
conform to this requirement.
c. The university academic organization should include a cycle of general studies,
The requirement for a small undergraduate thesis and a minimum of credits for studies
graduate.
d. Peru recover for a production level of knowledge appropriate to the growing
demands of our development and ongoing globalization. This means putting the
research as the fundamental activity of the Peruvian university system, so


167

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

such that the other two functions, teaching and social outreach are articulated
creatively with the first. The priority of knowledge production is
essential for meaningful changes and incidence.
e. To promote research in public universities, the National System will be created
Researchers with the University to finance teachers and researchers
National University Research Fund for research projects.
f. To provide a permanent link between -through demand agreements-
professionals, resources or technological innovations by private companies and
the universities.
g. To overcome the authoritarian turn of universities must be incorporated into government
these, the three estates: teachers, students and graduates; which it is the basis of the
university democracy, considering that the weight of each sector is different.
Rectors and deans should have the executive function and the authority to
exercise, should not be subject to it to heavy collegial bodies, as
today with university assemblies, university boards and councils
faculty to carry out its function. It must be clearly differentiated authority
each executive and deliberative function of the other.
h. National universities that are the direct responsibility of the State entrusted to
their university communities should have a democratic co-governance, involving two
thirds of teachers and a third of students, graduates having representation
supernumerary. Private universities should also include the three estates
in the proportion who consider it convenient.
i. The state university must remain a free university. The free of charge
teaching resources and guidance not only allows them to access it the
low-income students but also that this is a meeting between
people from different social classes; a space of social integration where it forges
future leadership of Peru.
7.2.2 QUALITY HEALTH FOR EVERYONE
to)

Diagnosis

The right to health as well as the right to education and another set of social rights not
It has been actively protected by the state in recent decades. The current development model
It has among its priorities to health. Which is observed in the permanent divorce between
income level of the country with respect to health indicators. For example, the rate
maternal mortality rate is nearly double the Latin American average, chronic malnutrition
It affects one in five children and the incidence of tuberculosis is the second highest in the
continent after Haiti.
Health in the country is not assumed as a democratic right of the people but as a
good for those who can afford it and charity for the poor. This is expressed in the
Minimum health spending in the country that is below the average for Latin America, with
only 4.9% of total expenditure of GDP, against 7% in the region, and 1.9% of GDP of public spending,
against 3.4% in the region.
There is also a serious inequity in access to the service, which reveals that in Lima
There is one doctor for every 1,750 inhabitants and Huancavelica one doctor for 23,000 inhabitants. TO
This serious damage to the health of the population is added by the fact that 45% of
Peru does not have access to sanitation and 30% have neither drinking water.

168

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

In recent times, problems such as maternal mortality, maternal and child mortality,
increase in teenage pregnancy and deteriorating mental health have tended to deepen
and massively, alongside these they have persisted ignorance and lack of access to policies
mainly family planning for poor women.
Health sector policies not effectively drive the promotion and prevention are
best weapons against the social determinants of health problems. Despite having
a Framework Law on Universal Health Insurance (Law 29344), the concrete is that the topic was
remained relegated. The government has not allocated funds for program implementation
pilots Universal Health Insurance (AUS). For the implementation of the Essential Plan
Health Insurance (PEAS) have been channeled only S /. 40 of S /. 140 million
budgeted by the Ministry of Health (MOH).
According to the National Household Survey (ENAHO) of 2009, 39.5% of the population
You have any type of health coverage. EsSalud (21.2%) and the Comprehensive Health Insurance -SIS-
(33.8%) are major insurers with more than 50% of the affiliated population. A data
relevant is that 82% of individuals who did not consult a doctor or health professional
Although they did not need it for lack of money.
The underlying factors of this undercoverage are: high labor informality prevailing in the
-since the local economy depends largely assurance contributions in the
payroll workers, and reduced public health budget amounting to 1.9% of
GDP well below the average for Latin America (3.4%).
We have resulted in a segregated health system, disorganized and unfair because it keeps
differential treatment to low-income people (especially in rural areas) to
who offers a lower quality and coverage with regard to taxpayers. Being
precisely this population that most needs attention for its high levels of vulnerability.
Yet important sectors in rural areas remain outside of the care system
bless you.
While coverage of Integral Health System (SIS) has been expanded, resources have not been
increased in proportion to the increase in the population covered causing further
discomfort among users due to increased waiting time for attention, lack of
medicines and limited benefit plan. Regarding this last point Consider
SIS only ensures the attention of 45% of the causes of disease (morbidity).
b)

Policy proposals:
Giving the entire population Peruvian health care quality and access, with a focus
human rights without any exclusions through a nature-SYSTEM
NATIONAL HEALTH initially coordinated and decentralized,
ENSURING
MINSA IN THE SECTOR, human resources, budget and
adequate infrastructure, with direct action on the social determinants of health and
disease and, therefore, with emphasis on preventive and promotional issues, primary care
health and care levels increasing complexity in the perspective of a
NATIONAL SYSTEM OF UNIVERSAL SOCIAL SECURITY, governed by the principles of
solidarity, universality, equality, integrity, unity and justice.
Lost  comprehensive and universal nature of the right to health of all citizens
Unlike any social background, ethnicity, age, gender, sexual orientation, disability
physical and mental, living with HIV, AIDS, TB, or other conditions.
 Developing a health policy focused on prevention and promotion, aimed at
preventing disease rather than curing it, and early detection before it


169

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

complicated. Efforts will focus on information and health education so
so that Peruvians can make better informed decisions about their style
life.
 turn in the financing of health insurance, from a mechanism
tax prominence to one in which the state (through tax collection)
is the financial support. A gradual increase is proposed over a period of five years spending
public health, to locate our country above the average of countries
region.
 To promote the extension of coverage and quality of health care plans,
incorporating sectors in extreme poverty and social exclusion mainly
in rural areas. It will seek to gradually bridging the gaps between plans
contributors (workers on the payroll) and not taxpayers.
 To promote the formation of an integrated health system and coordinated, where the Ministry
Health is the lead agency and sole administrator of funds.
 To strengthen the capacity of local and regional governments in promoting the
health and a preventive approach to it. In the context of decentralization, these
Governments are called upon to lead the development of their respective areas and policy
Health in coordination with other levels of government.
 Incorporate the health care system the traditional knowledge of the various
cultures users on par with the implementation of modern management practices
public.
c)

Action / Immediate Actions:
Rethinking the Law of Universal Health Insurance so that stipulates integration
SIS and EsSalud in a National Health System under the responsibility of the Ministry of
Health (MOH) which is in charge of the national health policy. Thus it is anticipated
a more efficient use of resources by avoiding duplication of functions.
 Implement the Law on the Rights of Users of Health for the purpose of generating
a mechanism of social control about the quality and equity of health services.
 Implementing the proposed ForoSalud and the Medical College of ensuring at least
85% of diseases are causes of morbidity for which channeled 0.5% of
GDP is the amount considered in this initiative.
 Implement an incentive mechanism to promote the shift
health care professionals to rural areas of the hand with greater mobility of resources
logistical attention towards the most vulnerable population.
 Implementation of the defenders of health and social health that comptrollers
They take care to provide protection, promotion, protection and realization of the right to health
an active, informed and active participation of citizens in all levels of
decision-making in health.
 Implementation of specialized care programs for people infected
chronically lead and other heavy metals with special emphasis on women
pregnant women, children and infants girls.


7.2.3 DECENT WORK AND decent pensions
to)

Diagnosis

Everyone has the right to decent work, but this right has been forgotten by the rulers
in recent decades, legislation and neoliberal policies implemented by Fujimori and maintained
Toledo and Garcia ended up precarious employment conditions.

170

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

One of the most important consequences of the decades of neoliberalism has been the
destruction of much of the existing formal job positions and the inability of
model to create new jobs, 75% of the labor force is informal and of these 52% is
underemployed. In this neoliberal approach it has questioned the value of work,
importance of trade unions and workers' dignity, rights
labor have been classified as business overruns.
This counter should be reversed, a new development model that promotes work
rights, namely decent work is the alternative, it is urgent to promote the necessary
legal and institutional reforms to multiply jobs, replace
full rights to union organizing, collective bargaining, ending with dismissal
arbitrary and restore the state's role in regulating relations between business and the
workers. Work is the most important social policy for its direct effects on the fight
against inequality and poverty eradication.
The formulation of decent work provides general guidelines regarding the proper use,
defining strategic objectives aimed at achieving them, these are:
to. Promoting productive employment.
b. The protection of fundamental rights at work.
c. The establishment of adequate remuneration and adequate social protection
Workers.
d. The promotion of social dialogue.
There is a shortage of decent work in Peru as a result of a set of conditions
longstanding structural, such as population growth, the institutional weakness of the state and
job skills deficit, in addition to others related to economic policies
adopted by recent governments.
We also face an institutional and regulatory framework including at constitutional level not
allows a balance of power between workers and employers, on the other hand clearly
favors employers and particularly the large domestic and foreign capital. In discussions
Recently the issue of employment conditions and remuneration have been absent, management
labor relations has been at the mercy of the will of the state and groups
business processes and responds to negotiation as in other democratic countries.
In the current government, as part of the negotiations and adjustments to the FTA was implemented a
regulatory framework should promote SMEs, but in practice further reduces
social rights of about 80% of the labor PEA already outside the Decree
Legislative 728. Furthermore it was never approved by the General Labour Act, employment or
despite being public agreements reached during the democratic transition 200-2001.
The Peruvian labor market is largely informal. Between 70% and 80% of the population works
informally in the country.13. This majority sector of the population has the lowest levels
pension system coverage. Less than 3% of workers without an employment contract is
affiliated to the private pension system. With regard to wage-formal, population Peru is
one of the Latin American countries with less coverage (35%) well below average
the region (65%). Pensions amounted to S /. 750 on average in the public sector and to S /. 870
private so the majority of the population continues working after age 65 (age
set retirement).
13

Even according to Professor Jose Rodriguez (PUCP), that percentage would be underestimated because within
this figure would not be considering Formal Unpaid Workers (unpaid family workers) and working children
children under 14 years.

171

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

This low coverage and low pension amounts are as the underlying problem
implementation of a pension system that relies on individual capitalization and own
a developed country urban and formal, not a society with high levels of informality
work like ours.
However, the vast majority of countries in the region have begun to implement a system
non-contributory and focused on the most vulnerable sectors of the population pension. The case
is emblematic Uruguayan where a mandatory public system and the system remains
AFP is only complementary to the participation of a state AFP (which accounts for 50% of total
Affiliate) with which regulates the market for commissions. While a new reform
Chile ensures a minimum pension to all Chileans, targeting an increase in pensions
the most vulnerable sectors. Brazil meanwhile priority in their pensions system
contributive to people over 60 who can prove lack of financial resources and
those that have been linked throughout his life to the rural activity. We also
For countries such as Argentina, Bolivia and Ecuador that have non-contributory pension or
social care.
In Peru, the introduction of the Private Pension System (SPP) in the nineties
He attempted directly against redistributive solidarity and on which it is based
any social security scheme. Recently it announced a bonus of 100 soles
those over 75 years, which is totally inadequate.
b)

Policy proposals:
Promoting institutional and policy reform that will bring us closer as possible to the
decent working conditions for all Peruvians, whose production compromise
State participation, the private sector and workers.
 Institutionalize the participation of the legislature and especially organizations
workers and employers. This is essential to strengthen the legitimacy of the Council
National Labour and Employment Promotion as a space for dialogue between the State,
Workers and employers in order to generate agreements and consensus in promoting
decent work.
 As part of the constitutional reform it must recover the state as guarantor of
rights of citizens, both individual and political rights and rights
social, cultural and solidarity that are considered fundamental rights in its whole.
 a General Labour Law to unify the excessive amount of regimes is required
working in the perspective of decent work and reflects a broad consensus, should
resumed the debate on the existing bill, it requires political will more
High-level discussed and agreed that this rule can be approved despite
powerful lobbies that seek to perpetuate the existing situation and legal framework.
 To improve the legal and regulatory framework in the public sector making the necessary adjustments
decent employment framework law to be promoting decent employment in the public sector
There are special schemes which cut labor rights of workers and should
be reviewed, as the Special Regime for Public Procurement Service (CAS) that
It was created to suit the requirements of NAFTA, but has not resulted in any progress
labor rights.
 In addition to economic policy and regulatory frameworks required a
strong institutions to ensure the effective implementation of these will require
strengthen the supervisory functions and the allocation of resources to the
implementation and monitoring of policies and rules.
 In addition to restoring the violated labor rights will require changes in the
economic model, ie only with new and better development policies


172

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

economic changes will be effective in the workplace, such as: promoting
unionization, collective bargaining and recovering an active wage policy
increases in the minimum wage.
 Recover inherent solidarity and a redistributive system scheme
pensions.
 Universal Pension System based on a contributory pension system
supplemented by a system of private management without this distorts the nature
public system.
 Focus on adults over 75 years.
Back  the State of its active role as a guarantor of financial sustainability of the System
National Pension.
c) Action / Immediate Actions


Implementation of a pension scheme based on two systems.
I. A first public system that guarantees pensions for all and
It contains two components:
 The tax-binding (base system) that guarantees a level of pension
according to both age and the number of payments made to the regime. The
membership in the contributory scheme is mandatory for all workers
assets, both employees and independent whose contribution will depend
their wages or income.
 The second, non-contributory, offering a basic pension for all adults
65 and older regardless of their history of affiliation with any system
pensions. This option will be financed primarily by taxes and by a
portion of the funds contributed by workers.
II.

A second private system that complements the first. This pillar is
voluntary and is based on individual accounts for employees and
independent. The contributions are determined by income level
exceeds the maximum established to determine the contributions to the public system.
In addition to the public pension pillar each taxpayer receives a pension
depending on the amount contributed and the performance of the chosen background.

In parallel, a non-contributory pension system will be implemented for people
elderly women who live in rural areas. In this regard, a study of 14 calculates MCLCP
PBI15 0.24% of the fiscal cost of pensionaria allocation of S / .100 for the population
over 60 years in rural areas of the country. Amount pledge to channel
as the most vulnerable population and part of our social policy priorities.
 Creation of the National Social Security Council (CNSS) for the formulation of
comprehensive policies including pension regulation and supervision of the actors,
including the private sector. The CNSS will have the participation of policyholders,
employers, the state and other actors involved in the subject.
 centralization raising activities into a single entity, from which
will distribute the funds under the supervision of the CNSS.
 Implement a national plan to combat late payment and contributions evasion
pension by employers.
 Reform of the current tax regime that manages public ONP to be
constitutes a fundamental part of the new model of pillars.


14

Arnillas, Federico (2009). Non-contributory pensions for the elderly in rural areas. MCLCP. Lima Peru.
fifteen
A pessimistic scenario arises with a growth rate of 0% and another with a growth rate of
3%.

173

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

Reformulate and unify the life expectancy tables currently used by AFP
corresponding to a different reality than the national. Tables line with life expectancy
National entail positive effects on pension amounts.


7.2.4 HOUSING, WATER AND SANITATION
to. Diagnosis

The protection of social housing came to be strengthened with the enactment of the Constitution
1979 which is considered as a right of the family to have a decent home
(Art. 10). This policy Charter stipulated that the state should preferably meet the
basic needs of the person and his family on food, shelter and
recreation, for which purpose the law regulating the use of urban land, according to well
common and with the participation of the local community. The State also promoted the implementation of
public and private programs and housing development. (Art. 18). This protection was
destroyed by the Fujimori Constitution. The programs promoted by the state have been made
to favor companies rather than families living in shantytowns and
slums.
More than 70% of Peruvians live in cities. The living conditions in these cities are very
different for families, according to their income level. The concern of the past two
Democratic governments have not been focused on low-income families and very low that
They are the ones who most need support. The government has spent the total fund MiVivienda,
Ascending more than 600 million dollars in the production of new housing sectors
means. Now you need to cover the deficit of housing for lower income families and
of those living in shanty towns, neighborhoods, who build their homes
progressively.
The housing policy of previous governments has been led by major manufacturers
housing, who are efficient in producing new income housing for families
medium and high, but they are not trained to work in the thousands of small processes
They have to do with the progressive housing. The housing policy of previous governments has
It has been produced by major manufacturers according to their interests, which are different from the
interests demand.
That's why they have built thousands of homes in the market easier, which is to Lima,
leaving aside the market for other cities; houses have been built without thinking
on the needs of the cities themselves. Housing without planning, which is the Chilean model
- Does not respect public spaces, no parking allowed, thickens the room, but not
increases or develop the parks. It was allocated 20 times more public money for families
of high and middle income families than for low and very low incomes. He did not even have
paid attention to the reconstruction of 72,000 houses severely affected by
earthquake of August 15, 2007.
We understand that the millions of families who have their own land and build there for them,
for their children and their business is not the market of mortgage banks or large
entrepreneurs. These banks and builders must understand also that his recovery was
made based on public money and now that money should be devoted to small
housing production, which currently takes place without support or control.

174

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

Therefore, without neglecting the mid-market, public money will stimulate market
lower income housing and who currently build on their plots of land and
graduates.
Housing policy in our country has been to provide housing for families
better income and only ground (sometimes with water) to others. That will change so
radical, for the benefit of all the country's cities and families who already have their land and
They build there.
Access to clean water and sanitation is a right of all citizens of the country, the same
which it has recently been raised by the United Nations human rights category
universal. Moreover when such access is crucial in the development and reproduction of a
number of diseases (such as diarrhea) affecting the poorest and are often the
cause of death among children. According to statistics, 45% of the population has no access
sanitation and 30% have no access to clean water. Therefore, the private sector in this sector
It must be carefully regulated by the State, in order to make the service accessible
to all.
SEDAPAL is an enterprise solution for large cities like Lima but you have to work
with numerous community organizations and Services Administration Boards
Sanitation (JASS) for the operation and maintenance of the infrastructure built in other
areas, especially rural areas. Currently in rural areas are more than 3 million people
without access to safe drinking water and more than 6 million who lack adequate
excreta and wastewater.
Currently, the Water for All weaknesses remain strong in the definition
concrete of purposes and activities. The 'open' nature of the program's objectives not
It lets focus efforts on the conclusion of a specific result and the definition of a
Solution horizon identified need. Because the activities are defined
and infrastructure projects there is no measurement of the contribution of each project to the finish
added.
Similar programs in the rest of Latin America do not necessarily cover all
aspects of closing access gap to drinking water, but seek to determine
Specific objectives.
In order to meet the Millennium Development Goals relating to improved water coverage
drinking and sanitation for the population in drylands, the country needs more
US $ 5 billion for investment in infrastructure, technology development and management.
b. Policy proposals
The Ministry of Housing transform into a real Ministry of Urban Development
which will boost the regional and municipal projects to develop productive cities and
healthy. One of its mechanisms of action is the creation of a competitive fund
elaboration of technical files for city services. Public attention
not be limited to the provision of water and sanitation to cities, but will cover the
important issues of solid waste management and air quality.
 we promote and support the efforts of families, building new
apartments and homes on their own land to stay there to the new generations,
whether for sale or for rent. The program of grants and technical assistance reach the people
young, developments, cooperatives and similar developments. With them will be promoted,


175

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

in addition, employment of young lawyers, architects and engineers who wish to provide their
professional actions of technical assistance to the population in each city of the country competition.
 MiVivienda Fund's resources will be targeted at encouraging private effort
produce suitable accommodation in the cities of provinces and cheaper production
housing for the middle class. Currently, these funds are used without providing
guidance to the market and allow the construction of the most expensive properties, which should
cease.
 we will promote micro and small entrepreneurs who are currently working as
freelancers or as foremen, in order to reach those who
It produces its stepper housing, since there does not reach the large construction industry
 we will prioritize access to sanitation services and drinking water, with special emphasis on
rural areas of the country with an assessment and updating of the National Water Program and
Rural Sanitation (PRONASAR).
 we will strengthen SEDAPAL which is responsible for a significant percentage of connections
in Lima and will support the modernization of Entities Lending Service
Sanitation (EPS) in the rest of the country.
Reorientation  Water for All program according to fixed targets or goals
specific deadlines. Given the nature of the water supply service is
unnecessary for a single program is fully deal with closing the gap of access to
drinking water because new projects are added constantly unable to handle
targeting criteria and benefit measurement.
 Incorporating cultural habits, community participation and health education
as key to the sustainability of services tools, and, therefore, for the
profitability of investments in these areas.
 Make effective investments needed to meet the Millennium Development
2015 Millennium pose a coverage of 82% and 77% of potable water
and sanitation, respectively.
 To strengthen the structure of municipalities to ensure the maintenance and expansion of
attention to new users.
 Review of the rate structure in order to implement differentiated tariffs
guarantee everyone access to basic sanitation units that allow
have safe water.
 Deepening of criteria that lead to appropriate formulation of the practicalities
technical, economic, financial, social and health policy that meets the enterprise
needs of the people.
 biggest boost to public investment in order to address the deficit in the field of
small towns and thus reduce service costs enabling increased
service offering.
 Registration consumers and users are not registered. Motivate users connectivity
installed systems to improve revenue and implement microcredit users
for acquiring the minimum, health equipment such as a multipurpose washing a
shower and a toilet in poor areas.
 Perform debt reprofiling term sector, adjusting the rate to the
ability to pay of the population. Also consider cross subsidies and sources
compensatory external financing for projects.
 Promotion of greater institutional capacities to develop and evaluate projects
investment, low cost alternatives to present and supervise the execution of the work
Local Governments.
 Implementation of effective environmental management of municipal solid waste,
by communal micro contest public cleaning. This pursuant
with the General Law of Solid Waste № 27314, level field for all
municipalities.

176

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

7.3

FOR EQUITY AND SOCIAL INCLUSION

7.3.1
to)

GANA PERU

NEW GUIDANCE FOR SOCIAL PROGRAMS

Diagnosis:

In the last decade, there have been some steps toward reform of social programs,
although insufficient, it has begun to incorporate some new approaches that go in the direction of
These programs complement or reinforce universal services of the State (in particular
health and education), improving the access of poor and marginalized populations to them
(Particularly in rural areas), and passing a sectoral approach increasingly one territorial,
and to have the computer life cycle axis.
It is also raised the need to reorient and restructure those programs according to
the three axes defined in the National Plan to Overcome Poverty approved in 2004 and
which they are collected in the first Multiannual Framework Social (approved in 2008). These areas are:
1.
2.
3.

Social Protection
Capacity Building
Promotion Opportunities

However there is little progress has been made, keeping most social programs
existing in the first axle, when the intention was to spend increasingly prioritize axis 2 and 3,
Given the current situation and requirements of the country, different from the 90s.
Beyond the unsuccessful attempt of the Ministry of Women and Social Development (MIMDES) of
FONCODES transform the action in rural areas with the new program Productive My Chacra
Productive-inspired project in the Sierra and the experience of seeking Yachachiq-
complement the above actions with the addition of a pack of ten technologies
improve productive capacities of rural families in extreme poverty, there is little that has been
advanced in terms of programs to overcome the situation of food insecurity
these families and becoming market inclusion.
Moreover, progress that led to the merger of several programs of the Ministry of Agriculture
(MINAG) in Agrorural, has not meant a major change in the joint and
coordination within the sector itself to reach the rural population in poverty and has not
taken to give greater impetus to successful projects such as Marenass and Puno-Cusco Corridor.
The Growth Strategy that in addition to its proposed action in relation to child malnutrition,
articulating existing social programs, and new ones could be created, according to the axis
2 and the shaft 3 of the social policy ultimately fell through.
Moreover, other social programs that needed to be rethought, together with their
beneficiaries and leaders, as is the case in particular Vaso de Leche and to a lesser extent
kitchens (they receive only marginal support from the state with the largest
the contributions of organized women's own), so as to enhance the action of these
social support networks in the priority of childhood, remained the same, disconnected from
aforementioned efforts. Also in the restructuring proposal, although it was
suggested that the National Food Assistance Program (PRONAA) strengthen aspects
food and nutrition education and sharing not only food, it was very

177

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

timidly, continuing interest in its political use and basically guidance
care.
The importance of the role of social organizations and their participation in management
social programs has been absent in this period.
b) Proposed policy












End patronage and undemocratic practices and state representatives
of political parties in power particularly in the use of social programs
and their beneficiaries. To do this proposes to increase and enforce channels
political participation through participatory budgeting, management committees
Local and public participation mechanisms to ensure transparency
and accountability in the execution of social and productive spending.
Agree on an agenda for development of the rural population, based on the
five strategies proposed by the Roundtable for Poverty Reduction:
 Development and care of human capacities with multicultural approach, gender and
intergenerational.
 capitalization and diversification of small rural production, especially basic
peasant and indigenous, aimed at improving the quality of food and improve
household income.
 Improved services and infrastructure oriented to the production, access to
markets, finance and technology, which are required to raise the profitability
of small rural producers.
 Adapting to climate change and reduction of natural vulnerabilities.
 Strengthening the social and political institutions.
In that sense the progressive extension proposed in the five-year rule to
1500 peasant families in rural mountainous districts, the proposed Sierra
Productive and experience in spreading Yachachiq 18 basic technologies
agriculture, environment and organization (this experience has been driven
by the Federation of Campesinos of Cusco and the Institute for Agrarian Alternative
over 15 years ago); additionally it aims to develop an alternative
technology appropriate to the rural jungle for a program similar scope to families
This rural area.
In regard to food programs, a reallocation of resources arises
in the case of rural mountain areas through the creation and operation of
Community Centers for Food Security (CECOSA), in which mothers
They will play a key role in the promotion, education and nutrition surveillance and control
against child malnutrition. The widespread and improved stove program
as supplementation multimicronutrient a comprehensive approach and
intersectoral, will also be a priority.
Continue, strengthen and complement such programs and strategies together, grow and
Strategic Budget programs related to early childhood (maternal and child health, nutrition, learning achievement and identity), in order to advance
substantially in closing gaps in education, health and nutrition in rural areas and
particularly in the poorest districts.
Strengthen strategic budgetary programs to infrastructure
(Rural electrification and telecommunications, water and sanitation) and Programs
Basic maintenance in schools, health facilities and small works
irrigation, which are oriented in priority to the fight against rural poverty.
Also incorporate a program to improve rural housing program and other aspects

178

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016















16

GANA PERU

related to improving the quality of life of families, moving progressively
to households with access to safe water, energy source, with upgraded kitchen without
overcrowding.
Creation of three new Strategic Budget Programs to protect
vulnerable groups, as stated by the Roundtable for the Fight Against
Poverty:
 Program Protection of Children and Adolescents from Violence.
 Non-Contributory Pension Plan for Older Persons.
 Capitalization Program for Small Rural Production (500 thousand units
economic small-scale rural production (UEPR) capitalized with contributions from
the state capital of about 5,000 dollars per UEPR; and 300 thousand farms
smallholder farm with at least ¼ hectare of land with irrigation
technified.
Expanding the coverage of Juntos program to 700,000 rural households. A January
This year coverage has reached 450 000 110 households below the target set
(Anticipated to reach a coverage of 500,000 homes in 2008). This expansion and
necessary adjustments to the program will be defined on the basis of
conclusions and recommendations of the comprehensive assessment (qualitative and quantitative)
It proposes to conduct met the first five years of implementation.
Strengthen social safety nets and activation capabilities and social capital
coordination between the state and social organizations. A recent study 16
distributive reveals the high potential of Kitchens, which we
committed to repowering. While solving problems that limit their
distributive potential. Everything in permanent coordination with municipalities and
social organizations.
Implementation of a policy to overcome the problems of under-coverage and filtration
Glass of Milk and School Breakfast, in concert with leaders
the various committees and the respective social organizations. To this end it is proposed
develop the ability of programs to expand the information allowing the
eligibility of users and grading systems that recognize the ability of
beneficiaries to resolve their vulnerabilities and progressive decoupling of
social program.
Strengthening and expanding coverage Wawa Wasi program that deals with the
nutrition for children 1 to 3 years, health and education, through techniques
early stimulation to help the development of their intelligence. As a program that
seeks comprehensive child care expansion should help improve performance
school children.
Take firm steps, such as outlined in the Social Multiannual Framework 2009-2011 and in which
almost no progress in the construction of a National System of Social Management
Decentralized, which should vertebrarse from PCM-CIAS and cover sectors and
programs, as well as regional and local governments, strengthening management
social policy at three levels: sectoral, intergovernmental and participatory (Estadosociedad private sector, civil-). At this level, strengthening spaces
coordination of social policies should be a real priority (unlike what
It has happened in the current government). We refer to both the Roundtable
for the Fight against Poverty, and the National Education Council, the Council
National Health and spaces as Participatory Budgets and Plans
Concerted development.
Strengthen the management of social policy, establishing, as also proposed in the
Social Multiannual Framework mentioned, social subsystem that identifies planning

Alvaro Monge, Enrique Vasquez, Winkelreid Diego (2009) Is public spending on social programs
regressive in Peru? CIES. University of the Pacific. Lima Peru.

179

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016




7.3.2
to)

GANA PERU

needs and resulting aid packages and forms of intervention,
defining the operation and roles of the different actors in the social performance
(Including different levels of government); monitoring subsystem that allows
monitor the implementation of social programs, integrating Information System
reliable beneficiaries of social programs, in coordination with the
INEI; and external evaluation subsystem that can measure the impacts achieved in
relative to the established baseline.
Articulation of social policies and programs by strengthening the Commission
Interministerial Social Affairs (CIAS) and its Technical Secretariat (TS).
Implementation of the Intergovernmental Coordination Committee (regional governments nacionalgobiernos government-local) for the social field and in particular programs
social.
POLICIES FOR GENDER EQUALITY

Diagnosis

In recent years the women's movement has made significant progress to demand
public policies to achieve equal opportunities, however, the degree of exclusion
and inequality remains particularly marked in relation to women, adolescents,
young adult women, preventing the full exercise of citizenship. A requirement for
continue talking about democracy is to involve women in public spaces and
political decision, so it is important to continue investing in affirmative action
contribute to the unequal conditions can change, thereby balancing
presence of women in all areas of power.
For this we have to contribute to that should change the conditions of poverty who live
Most women in our country, the 2007 census realizes that 54.89% of women
Peruvians live in poverty. And ENAHO Household Survey 2009, informs us that
secondary level education achieved by women over 15 years is only 37.2% and
26.8% of women have access to primary education only. There is still 9.9% of women aged 15
more years, that do not have any education. According to Unesco figures
functional illiteracy are increasing among women, something that is not taken into
account in our statistics.
With respect to health, access to this, it remains a problem that women live
poor and extremely poor both urban and rural, according ENAHO 2009, only
53.3% of urban areas have access to contraception, compared with 42.3% of
rural women accessing this service. In terms of care delivery in the urban sector
only 82.5% is serviced by a specialist, and only 36.6% of the rural sector. Dies every 8 hours
a woman for pregnancy complications mainly due to lack of facilities
care in remote areas of our territory, which does not allow women
have quality services and nearby areas especially poor women efficiency,
peasant and indigenous.
The unemployment rate among women over 15 years of age is 11.6%, women age
work are mainly working in services and trade; services are the
49% and 29.8% in commerce. In this situation a growing demand for labor persists
female decent and well paid, so that you can enable the support of their families and
overcoming the welfare approach to addressing the needs of women.

180

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

Another aspect that is still pending, the exercise of citizenship of all women, appearance
that is not possible because there is a 20% of rural women do not have what DNI
prevents the exercise of citizenship.
According to information Mindes gender violence still persists, with 87.8% of
Women suffering from violence. Femicide is another situation that is alarming growth
in so far this year in Lima 30.4% of women were victims of murder by her partner,
partner, ex-partner. Other regions with high rates of femicide are Junín with 10.9%
and Arequipa with 9.8% (data MINDES).
Sexual violence is one of the most critical forms of violence against women and girls and
the children. It is a form of exercise of power and an expression of gender inequalities and
generations, which disproportionately affects young women and girls, undermines
dignity and sexual freedom of the people, violating their sexual or reproductive rights
by using force or threat of force, intimidation, coercion, blackmail, pressure
improper, bribery, manipulation or any other mechanism to annul, limit the personal will
deciding about sexuality and reproduction. During the first half of 2009
(January to June), the Interior Ministry attended 3,406 complaints of rape in the country,
of which 94.13% (3,206) were women, while the 5.87% (200) males.
In recent years other problems that affect sexual health of women is the
contamination by the presence of lead and other heavy metals. During pregnancy
these metals is transmission through the placenta generating infected children that gesten
who at birth they are children in your life will likely chronic malnutrition. In the
Oroya, Cerro de Pasco, Callao are in areas that have problems with high presence of these
metals beyond those permitted by WHO.
Our vision
In the medium term we are committed to strengthening equality policies
opportunities in all sectors of the state, to enable the empowerment of women
for the full exercise of citizenship. Women have committed to decent work,
education, health and quality efficient and free of violence.
b)

Policy proposals











Ensure recognition of women in the city, rural, indigenous, workers,
still have no access to basic services such as education, health, work.
Strict compliance with the Law on Equal Opportunities between Women and Men
(Law 28983) budget providing for implementation at national, regional and
Local.
Enforcement of Educational Development of Rural Girls
(Law 27558) with the addition of mechanisms of prohibition, punishment and prevention
any act of discrimination based on gender identity.
Promotion and implementation of social investment programs for capacity building and
job skills of women according to their age range, ethnicity, region and sector
production.
Full respect for the labor rights of women workers, compliance
of the regulations that establishes equal pay for equal work performed by
men and women.
Strengthen the implementation of the National Plan to Combat Violence Against Women 20092015 committing the funds necessary for its implementation, promoting

181

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016







c)

creation and maintenance of safe houses and the expansion of coverage and quality
Women's Emergency Centers. With care staff fluent in the language of the
region or locality.
Ensure the full exercise of sexual and reproductive rights of all women;
access to family planning methods and protection against STD, including AOE
(Oral Contraception Emergency) and the VHSIDA and the decriminalization of abortion.
Guarantee the human rights of people with different sexual orientation respecting
their identity and option
Penalize cases of violence perpetrated against people with impunity of
LGBT groups.
Protocols promote sexual health care and reproductive health for women and
girls in areas of high levels of contamination by lead and other heavy metals.

Action / Immediate Actions:







7.3.3
to)

GANA PERU

the necessary funds will be channeled to reduce the gap in household expenses
breakfasts educational goods. In this regard, a recent study17 reveals that the reduction
spending gap in this sector of the population implies a transfer of
Government approximately S /. 15 million annually considering different criteria
targeting. This amount means 0.11% of the education budget in 2010. Amount
we commit channel.
Implementation of a national observatory to monitor the implementation of the
Equal Opportunities Act at all levels of the state.
Dar pass immediately to generate the treatment protocol as therapeutic abortion
UN demands.
Provide better care budgets in the Women's Emergency Centres.
care protocols will be generated women of reproductive age living in areas
High pollution of lead and other heavy metals. Promoting legislation
to punish regional mining and metallurgical companies that do not meet the
no environmental pollution requirements.
YOUTH EMPLOYMENT POLICIES
Diagnosis.

Not all problems are youth employment, not all problems are the young
employment. Young people naturally have higher rates of unemployment and underemployment that
adults, for they are in massive process of incorporation and acquisition of experiences. Its rate
unemployment is on average twice that of adults.

At the same time, also they tend to be more affected by discrimination, insecurity and instability and
lack of protection of their labor and social rights. For example, it is often crisis
raising the unemployment rate to be three times that of adults.

In Peru and other third world countries, youth unemployment is not aspiring (which
They are seeking employment for the first time) as it was in the past. There is a queue of 350-400000
graduates looking to enter the education system to work, as stated decades. He
17

Enrique Vasquez, Alvaro Monge (2009). "Gender inequality in education for girls and teenagers
rural of Peru: Situation and Policy Proposals ". NGO Manuela Ramos.

182

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

Youth unemployment (95% of total unemployment) is unemployed, people who already have
worked before. That is, young people entering and leaving the labor market, are constantly
expelled and try again, precisely because of their fragility against abuses
market, even legally established during the neoliberal reform noventa.18

b)

Policy proposals:

Offer Shares in the labor market.
 Reduce the pressure on, especially urban labor market. Therefore the
precariousness of this market, which is however higher entrance area 0ferta
rural, and its adverse effect on the wages of the whole, must be controlled in the
medium term the effect of the poor and abundant supply (low wages and the perpetuation of
poverty). In particular the intermediate formation is promoted, lowering costs.
 widely Improving education in the provinces, especially that provided from the
Technological colleges and CEPROs. There are scattered throughout the country
incomplete and appalling operational conditions and teacher training infrastructure.
His retirement prevents use these systems as bastions lifting
agricultural and industrial base and defense of health and productivity extension
education for residents, able to justify their jobs and translate them into welfare
social and productive.
 Extend-up to the youth, to integrate socially and
isolate them from social risks. Sports promotion; Youth centers (with cabins
Internet and updated books, for example); short studies centers in languages,
computer, math reinforcement; development of volunteering to provinces
basic salaries.
Shares on demand and market expansion.
 Clearing called Youth Training Conventions and introduction of
the Youth Training Programs. The name of Conventions is a
mode to avoid the obligations of labor contracts. There should be training
Youth employment, but they must maintain labor rights for young people, limit
extension of this type of contract and provide them with social and labor rights, not
You can promote employment, sacrificing dignity.
 Create very close links between secondary and higher education and business
and state agencies, so that work can be part of the training and
skills acquisition. Always respecting the rights of young people.
Enlarge  state activity in the intermediation of employment and transparency
Work market. There are public and private actions in this field, but very limited.
Ideally, there is a center in districts or provinces with about 10,000 inhabitants
placement, promotion and job search of suitable size as
to meet labor demand locally. The Ministry of Labour should coordinate and
technically support this network.
 Develop some credit products linked to small businesses, which are
those in which young people have a higher incidence. They should not create systems
18

The working population pressure and is moving -in the average rate, which is to say, that of
Lima and the main cities-to adult and older ages. Youth employment problems are
more acute in the provinces and districts mainly rural, where migration is forced into the
cities. But as the base of the pyramid is juvenile, in absolute amounts is still the problem of
greater urgency.

183

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016



7.3.4

GANA PERU

Credit for youth "entrepreneurship": young people are not in their overwhelming majority
or entrepreneurs have to be with her limited experience. We do have to expand
microenterprise credit and they must compete there alone and associated, in a horizon
greater opportunities.
Young people should also be benefited as the elderly, the reforms in the
operation of labor markets, which are projected as part of the development of employment
worthy. The, salary, educational improvement of labor rights and social protection -at
universalizarse- will eliminate discrimination and improve the living environment
our youth without creating oppositions with their parents.
POLICIES FOR SOCIAL INCLUSION OF INDIGENOUS PEOPLE

to. Diagnosis:
Peru is the country with the largest indigenous population in the region. It is estimated that the Peruvian population
vernacular speech is about 6 million people, representing about 29% of the
national population. Of these, nearly half a million speakers of Aymara are five million
Quechua speakers and about 300 or 400 thousand speak one or more of the 41 languages ​​of the Amazon
peruana19. The geography in which this population is is complicated, so near
30% is not immediately connected to a network of roads and highways way. In that
sense, according to a recent study20, in Peru a person of origin "white" perceived
21% increase in pay for a person of minority ethnic origin with the same gender,
age and level of education.
Policies directed towards indigenous people in Peru have focused historically on agriculture in
cultural and policy towards the use of soil and subsoil policies in the country. Nevertheless,
in recent years the majority of countries with indigenous populations routed based policies
compliance with the ILO Convention 169 on Indigenous and Tribal Peoples in countries
independent.
This agreement was signed by Peru and holds the status of national law. Subscription
This agreement requires adapting our legislation to ensure implementation of its provisions
designed to include indigenous peoples in national development strategies. The commitment
guarantee these rights for indigenous peoples has led to changes in relations
between indigenous and state. Thus we have seen in recent years how
indigenous organizations have used this context as a tool to push for
major reforms, although many of them have been truncated.
b. Policy proposals:
Unrestricted fulfillment of Convention 169 on Indigenous and Tribal Peoples in
in order to safeguard indigenous peoples and their rights. Within the main
agenda items that make our convention include:




19

Ensure that indigenous peoples can participate in the processes of decision-
decisions that concern them, establishing compulsory mechanisms
consultation to make decisions about any activity that takes place in their territories.

The Census does not allow the ethnic self-identification, so the language is the best approach to
figures for the indigenous population.
20
Ñopo Hugo, Juan Pablo Atal and Natalia Winder (2009). "New Century, Old Disparities: Wage Gaps
gender and ethnicity in Latin America. " Interamerican Development Bank.

184

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016








GANA PERU

Explicitly accept ethnic and cultural diversity of the country as a positive element
and transcendent of nationality.
Resolve outstanding issues collective title.
Ensure conditions for hiring and equal employment.
Promote professional training linked to handicrafts and rural industries.
Ensure appropriate representation of the peoples and their cultures in the media
communication.
Recognition of lasting and permanent nature of the people entitled to
social organization and their custom.
Respect the desire to have control over their destiny and priorities.

Promote training for bilingual teachers to include training in
methodology of teaching reading and writing in the mother tongue of children
vernacular-speakers. In that sense, it is extremely important boost to the Directorate
General Intercultural Education, Bilingual and Rural in order to preserve and cultivate
collective knowledge of indigenous peoples.
 Promotion of capacities and institutions to make viable strengthening
institutional and individual and collective identities of indigenous capacity.
 Development of public infrastructure projects (rehabilitation projects and
maintenance of rural roads, rural electrification) targeted to allow greater
economic integration of the indigenous population to the rest of the country. With emphasis on the sector
agriculture.
 Promoting the right to DNI of all indigenous people breaking the barrier
lack of documentation to guarantee the exercise of their full citizenship.
 Promoting technology research center using the skills
traditional indigenous production of teachers (including Yachachiqs) and enhance their
developing.
 Creation of the Peruvian Academy of Indigenous Languages, formalizing alphabets
these peoples and promoting their linguistic unity.
 Implementation of specific programs of bilingual and intercultural education in all
territories they inhabit our various indigenous peoples and native communities.
 Updating and promotion of land titling program (PETT) Program
National Watershed Management and Soil Conservation (PRONAMACHS), and
National Institute of Natural Resources (INRENA). The three instances are those that are more
relating to indigenous populations of the Sierra and the Amazon.


7.3.5

to.

POLICIES FOR PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES
Diagnosis:

The construction of a Peru for All central objective of our program involves end
all forms of discrimination and exclusion. This puts on the agenda the full recognition of
Rights of Persons with Disabilities (PWD) in all areas, as well as a focus
social and rights issue to replace the rehabilitative approach and simply doctor who sees
disability as an individual person question of dysfunction and not focus on the relationship
social.
The PCD bordering on 10% of the population, more than 2 million and half people, although it has not
conducted a national census on disability or adequate scientific studies of the case,
in breach of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities that the
Peru ratified and entered into force in 2008. The absolute majority live below the poverty line (82%) and
unemployment rates (94%), illiteracy, lack of enrollment in the education system (more

185

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

66% of children with disabilities), lack access to health services are immoral and
unacceptable.
Efforts by the state to respond to this problem have been insufficient
with little progress achieved, so that the initiatives of civil society and some institutions
public to reverse this situation hit the huge indifference and lack of resources.
No control, no guarantees for compliance with the provisions of Law 28164 which demands
incorporate a quota of not less than 3% of employees with disabilities in the public sector.
b.

Policy proposals
Implement the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with
Disability which involves developing multisectoral policies, especially their access to
employment, education, health, urban planning, communications and social-policy with the
participation of PWD and their organizations as stated in the Convention, allocate budgets
concrete for implementation, develop censuses, surveys and scientific studies on the
Peru disability to have a correct diagnosis and effective monitoring to make
policies.
 Strengthen the National Council for the Integration of Persons with Disabilities
(CONADIS), as lead agency for disability policies, and strengthen
This articulation with the Regional Offices of Care for People with Disabilities
(OREDIS) and the Office of Care for People with Disabilities (OMAPEDs) --in regions
and municipalities-fulfilling involve you in discussion with sectoral policies involving
PWD in the Council of Ministers.
 In relation to the PCD we make our principles:
 Respect for inherent dignity, individual autonomy including the freedom to make
own decisions, and independence of persons;
 Non-discrimination.
 The full and effective participation and inclusion in society.
 Respect for difference and acceptance of disability as part of human diversity and
the human condition.
 Equal opportunities.
 Accessibility.
 Equality between men and women with disabilities.
 Respect for the evolving capacities of children with disabilities and respect for the
right of children with disabilities to preserve their identities.


Finally, apply the principles of the Convention for the PCD: respect for their
dignity and autonomy, non-discrimination, full and effective participation in social life,
economic and political equality of opportunity and rights, accessibility, equality
gender and respect for the rights of children with disabilities.
 we will adapt school systems, health, employment and credit to MSEs as well
as social programs, to be inclusive and provide opportunities and rights to
PCD. We will ensure accessibility to them, like transportation, public buildings,
cities, and communications.
 we will push Services, Social and Training Programs, which allow strengthen
PWD and their families; to have fair and equal access to opportunities
education, health, rehabilitation, employment, food, clothing, housing and culture.
 will remove
architectural, cultural, technological and political barriers; Y,
reformulate the program of equal opportunities for the disabled with their participation and
with budgets, which it has never happened.


186

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

We will ensure dialogue and regular exchange with organizations of people
with disabilities and their families, so that national, regional and local policies
taking into account issues relating to disability when policies are developed and
action plans.
 we will promote the existence of both public and private social programs that offer the
PCD and his family the opportunity to access various recreational activities, sports
and cultural
 We will develop campaigns and accident prevention policies, awareness and
awareness as a cross-sectoral involving media
massive, civil society organizations, colleges, universities, authorities
subnational.


c.








Action / Immediate Actions
Implementation Plan for Equal Opportunities with sufficient budget to be
carried out.
Drafting a national report on the process of integrating people with
disabilities in all areas of the state and civil society.
Coverage and access to comprehensive health services and rehabilitation will increase
quality, for all persons with disabilities and their families.
access to a quality education, inclusive, free, fair and specialized, will be given to
special education programs and the creation of private schools management
charity.
employment programs will be encouraged for people with disabilities and encourage the
Hiring these people in the private sector.
He at protection and promote the construction of housing and public and private entities
designed with ease of movement and access to common areas, supported the
Program My House and other public or private programs. Same for transport
public.

187

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

7.4
7.4.1

GANA PERU

HUMAN RIGHTS AND SOCIAL PEACE SAFE LIFE

HUMAN RIGHTS AND SOCIAL PEACE
to. Diagnosis
Ensure social peace in the country, based on the deepening of democracy and development
sustainable, promoting the eradication of the factors that favor the development of expressions
political and social violence and a culture of sustained peace in the recognition of others, dialogue and
the timely and concerted participatory conflict resolution, affirming the role of the State
full respect, protection and promotion of human rights.
Political violence swept the country in recent decades, the remnants of the conflict and its aftermath
persist to the present deepening structural gaps, injustice and exclusion
decline of at least two million mainly rural population, comunera originating and
Indians of our mountains and jungle of Peru. So we express our full support for the report
End of the Commission of Truth and National Reconciliation.
Integrally violence disrupted the lives of these individuals and peoples, limiting them as actors
your own personal social development, however, there is no political will to the
Comprehensive implementation recommended by the TRC, Reparations Plan so that PIR
resources allocated so far constitute only 20% of the required per year, while
in terms of quality it has been reduced to only one of its 5 components, losing integrity and
restorative force.
Between 600,000 to 1 million people mostly in rural areas, are displaced by
effect of internal armed conflict, 80% of these returned to their communities with their own
means. Today we are witnessing the revival of forced displacement, being the
causal factors: the failure of return, persistent lags and armed conflict
negative impact of development projects and drug trafficking.
The postponement of the legitimate demands and fundamental and human rights
poorest and most excluded people in the country and the absence of an efficient care strategy and
resolution has encouraged the rise of social conflicts, there have been 250 conflicts
social, of which 171 are active (68%), about 50% are related to issues
environmental partner, at least 120 of them have been violent expressions, affirming the
trend of criminalization of protest.
b. Policy proposals


To ensure non-repetition, implement institutional reforms
recommended in the report of the Commission of Truth and Reconciliation in
particularly the reform of the security system, National Defense and Internal Order and the
justice reform and education.



Thorough investigation, prosecution of crimes and the facts of violation of rights
human, exemplary punishment of civilians, police and military officials in strict
correspondence established responsibilities.



Full compensation of all victims of armed conflict, a period
maximum of six years as established by Law 28592. Repair, defense, protection and
prevention of forced displacement in the country, strengthening of existing legislation.

188

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

7.4.2

GANA PERU



Create a national fund for repairs with resources from the public treasury, the contest
private sector and international cooperation, to finance the repair of all the
victims affected, including displaced persons and the establishment of the Single Registry
Corresponding victims.



Semi establish voluntary civil service in the affected communities as alternative
graduation for college students as part of a Comprehensive Plan
Repairs.



Care and timely, concerted and democratic resolution of social conflicts, with
effective participation and ongoing dialogue and the actors involved, in the framework of
ethno-cultural diversity and unrestricted respect for human rights.



Consolidate a highly specialized and permanent state institution, with functions
governing body, regulatory and executive responsible for the policies and actions of the state in
areas of peace, national reconciliation and reparation. The High Commissioner for Peace as
civil authority at ministerial level, with support of a high-level Multisectoral Commission and
the establishment of decentralized committees Peace and Development.



Affirm the role of the state as a defender and promoter of human rights, through
transversal actions and policies throughout the state structure.

CITIZEN SECURITY
to.

Diagnosis

In recent years, the country has experienced a growth in violence and hence rate
crime and the feeling of insecurity. The dimension of these problems is not
really it is known by the absence of a unified system of criminal information showing
dynamics of these phenomena and guide the development of solutions. However, some studies
support the conclusion that the main problems of insecurity affecting
Peruvians are crimes against property, gang violence, domestic violence, marketing
drogas21 and consumption.
We must also not forget that the above listed problems are not isolated phenomena
but social problems that are the breeding grounds in structural situations as
unemployment, poverty and inequality, despite the country's economic growth, yet
persist in worrying levels.
One of the most used methods to identify the magnitude of the violence suffered a region is
analyze information of violent deaths, particularly homicides. In Peru, the rate
highest national homicide was recorded in 1993 (17.2 per 100,000). In the years
below, this rate reached its lowest point in 2002, with 4.2 nationally. Without
But thereafter, according to data from the National Police of Peru (PNP), this rate has
increased significantly, reaching positioned between 2008 and 2009, 10.9. This figure, the
compared with the overall rate of homicides (from 8.8 to 17.6 per 100,000 inhabitants), located at
Peru at a level of "moderate mortality rate" 22

21

IDL. 2010 Annual Report on Citizen Security. The legacy of the government of Alan Garcia, a country more
insecure. Lima, 2010.
22
Alfonso Gushiken, Gino Costa, Carlos Romero and Catherine Privat. Who are assassinated @ s in Lima? How,
when and why? Lima: City Our first edition, 2010.

189

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

On the other hand, the feeling that crime is on the rise has not been a change
substantially in recent years, remaining above 23 while 70% 96%
Lima believes that our capital is unsafe for vivir24 city. This fear is what
is transforming the lifestyle of Peruvians, who, for fear of being violated by the
crime, abandoned public spaces to take refuge in their homes.
In all described, it should be added the high level of mistrust felt by citizens
PNP institution whose main task is to ensure the safety of Peruvians. For instance,
about 79% of Lima and chalacos feel "little or no" confidence in the PNP, as the
considered "corrupt" and "abusive" 25 For this reason, it is essential to strengthen the work
Police meet and regain public confidence.
Another problem of the police is the continued low level of wages and
logistical and technological resources. Faced with this reality, are the municipalities which, in some
cases, supply of resources to police stations and hire police to accompany French
the serene paths on their mobile. Only districts and provinces with more resources can
do this, while the rest of the population is exposed to the scene of increasing violence
experienced by the country. As a result of this process, the absolute decrease is observed
number of police (from 120,000 to less than 100,000) upstream growth
Accelerated cities.
On the other hand, regional presidents and mayors, leaders of public safety committees
in their respective territories, they have failed to fulfill their task by a number of
urging resolve factors (ignorance of the subject, the lack of control and resources, etc.). Thus,
for example, in the case of Lima, most municipalities have reduced their work
public security patrolling the streets through Serenazgo, placing second on
topic of prevention.
Finally, it is noted that the second government of Alan Garcia has focused policy
public safety in the use of force, spreading the idea that toughening penalties
Prison is the best way to reduce violence. This is a "conservative" view, as it
favors dealing with the effects of insecurity but not the causes of it.
Our vision
We propose a progressive vision of citizen security centered on crime prevention
over control and represión26. Thus, we seek to attack the root causes of violence,
frontally fight against insecurity and crime but also working conditions
decent life for Peruvians.
b. Policy Proposal


2. 3
24
25
26

Strengthen and promote the family, the school and the community as the main agents
socialization of Peruvian society. Efforts will focus on to address violence
within families and schools, working with parents, teachers and
children. Also, in the community, neighbors, public institutions and police will be involved

CONASEC. National Operational Plan 2010. Citizen Security (Online document)
IDL, 2010, p. 14-15
IDL, 2010, p. 33-34
IDL, 2010, p. 43.

190

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

To promote national organizations and neighborhood networks that meet a labor
preventive and inclusive.


Promote and adopt targeted measures to prevent violence in risk groups
(Women, children, LGBT).



Recover public spaces in favor of the consolidation of inclusive cities and neighborhoods
sustainable. Efforts will focus on providing quality public infrastructure
reach all Peruvians, also promoting its assessment and care.



Strengthen and modernize the justice system, providing access to justice for all. The
Efforts will focus on streamlining criminal proceedings and assist victims for damage
I suffered.



Strengthen and modernize the National Police of Peru, to reach optimum standards
in their efforts to deter and control the violence, seeking to regain public trust.
Promote the formation of a system of collection and qualitative analysis of information on
violence and crimes committed nationwide.



Strengthen the autonomy and the role played by the National Council of Public Safety
(CONASEC) for the prevention of insecurity.



Ensure that the institutions promote policies CONASEC violence prevention
and insecurity in their respective fields.

c. Action / Immediate Actions

7.4.3



Amend the Law 27933 for the Technical Secretariat of CONASEC pass executing unit
the MININTER to be a public agency, giving this institution with
greater political and administrative autonomy.



Create a unit or observatory, within the Technical Secretariat of CONASEC, to collect and
analyze information on cases of violence and crimes committed at the national level,
also undertake a study of victimization nationally has not since 2005.



Create a National Program for Prevention of Violence to integrate the various programs
that exist on this subject.



Ensure civilian leadership of the Interior Ministry.



Develop and implement a plan to strengthen police stations and infrastructure level
technology in order to modernize and interconnect. Also, increasing the number of
effective and qualify for public attention. Also develop and execute a plan
strengthening emergency tasks for the PNP.



Implementation permanent mechanism for accountability of authorities
police to the public.



Shaping the Rural Police, mobile detachments, to ensure public safety
in hundreds of districts that do not have police stations.

SPORTS.
to)

Diagnosis:

191

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

The theme of sport is vital to the country's development. The sporting activity
a society is one of the principal means of skills training and values ​​in
person. However, the view that the different governments have had on this topic
in the country he has been back to this concept.
In the public investment in Peru Sport amounts to little more than US $ 2 a year per inhabitant,
while in Brazil this investment amounts to an approximate amount of US $ 5 per year. This data
naked contempt of the State in this area, where chaos persist, disorganization and
inefficiency.
The results observed in the last 30 years under the direction of the governing body Instituto Peruano
Sports (IPD) shows that we have to build everything that does not exist and all that is not
he has done in terms of education, organization, modern management, promotion, mass and
sports development in Peru. The shares of Peru in the international level have not been
outstanding level of equipment, except individual results of a few athletes, thanks to its
efforts and personal dedication, confirming the poor state of sport in its management quality.
At present, it lacks a modern and regulated legal framework, which has suitable
the IPD itself, and federations. It also lacks an operational framework that has a
horizon of standards, guidelines, objectives, targets and effective documented pragmatic actions
provincial level federations and leagues, and professional sports. Examples are the
Law for the Promotion and Development of Sport (Law 28036) has not yet been regulated.
The investments made in raising stadiums and installed capacities, have as
reference sports social impact studies, so it is not taken as a starting point
diagnostics explore in number of athletes, athletes, number of disciplines, number of
clubs, leagues, tournaments, etc.
b)

Policy proposals



Rethink the vision of Peruvian sports governing body, the Peruvian Sports Institute
(IPD). This reform must enrumbarse according to strengthening the relationship between sport
with the development of our society, the role of sport as a means to
insert values ​​in the population a better quality of life, preventive health and wane
social violence. This measure implies a restructuring of the organization, the use of
program, and the entire administrative structure of the IPD instruments.



Develop a modern legal framework that has a standard set of guidelines, objectives,
goals and actions at the level of provincial federations and leagues. With a special emphasis on
promoting active involvement of regional governments, municipalities and private sector.



Implement a Master Development Plan for the coming years to promote the activity
sports in the country. This plan should include notice to perform diagnostics and studies
social-impact sports to serve as references for investment in infrastructure
sports with the aim of efficient use of resources and avoid building
'idle' facilities.



Development of a database to serve as input for a diagnosis of the sector; for him
Setting objectives in the short and medium term; and monitoring the correct
obtaining these objectives. This database includes:




The results of "performance" of the different competitive sports.
The number of competitive disciplines.
The number of professional coaches.

192

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016





He
He
He
He

number
number
number
number

from
from
from
from

GANA PERU

leagues in each sport.
each sport clubs.
local tournaments each sport.
recreational athletes and disabled at regional and national level.



Training Advisory Council, Commissions of Justice and Ethics, Doping and Sports School.
These tips should be composed of technical and honorable members of the community.



Creation in each region of the decentralized units of the Ministry of Social Development and
Sports that will be made by the regional authorities.



Promotion of recreational sport in the elderly and people with disabilities.

Chapter 8

8.1

Andean integration and
Latin American and
Sovereign Insertion
in the community
International

CLAIMING THE POLITICAL AND STATE IN RELATIONS
INTERNATIONAL

The new foreign policy of Peru will be based on the promotion of our national development, peace
and the defense of democracy, respect for international treaties and Andean integration
regional, mutual respect, non-interference in internal affairs and political pluralism,
ideological and economic; and in the defense of our sovereignty and our territorial integrity
natural resources.

193

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

We hope, therefore, that our country has an increasingly independent voice in the
international arena in defense of fundamental principles such as human rights,
defense of democracy, the right to development, multilateralism, fair trade, defense
environmental, peaceful settlement of disputes and respect for international law and
their institutions.
8.2

OUR FRIENDLY RELATIONS WITH NEIGHBORS

Our foreign policy with neighboring countries based on respect for treaties
international, peace, integration, promoting trust and disarmament policy, and
in fair trade that promotes the development of the Andean countries.
In this regard, we strengthen the Andean Community and bilateral treaties and agreements and
physical, political and economic integration between the Andean nations. The Andean and regional integration,
and the coordination of our foreign policy, are the best ways to deal with
challenges of globalization and international attempts at domination.
Our relations with Brazil, with which we share the Amazon, will be based on an active
economic and political cooperation, mutual benefit, fair trade and in promoting
our country and protect our environment development.
8.3

STRENGTHEN COMMUNITY ANDINA

We strengthen the Andean Community, especially its capacity for political dialogue and
against economic globalization process. We propose the creation of an Andean Community
Energy, to develop a large petrochemical industry in our subregion, which believes
goods, services and employment and has capacity for international political and economic negotiation
similar to OPEC. Working in this crucial area of ​​energy production and
construction of a petrochemical industry, in marketing and in the corresponding development
knowledge, we find create therefore highly symmetrical positive interdependence
between our countries. In this field we propose structures and create common institutions.
8.4

BUILD AND LATIN AMERICAN REGIONAL UNIT

We will support the Union of Southern Nations (UNASUR) America, progress in setting
its own political project in the South American area, giving it an effective capacity
negotiation and presence, and concerted participation in major agenda items
International. Propose an Organization for Security and Cooperation in South America,
expanding the South American Community of Nations, before the passage of the Latin American Union.
We will promote a policy of regional security based on intra-regional security,
political cooperation and action against terrorism, drug trafficking and organized crime.
They also will promote bilateral relations in different fields of Understanding
political and cooperation with other countries of MERCOSUR and Latin America.
We will review the policy approval of military expenditures and arms control, and
the policy of combating drug trafficking and illegal crops.

194

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

We propose the elimination of the Rio Treaty for having become an anachronistic instrument
Cold War and not have worked in the British aggression against Argentina (Malvinas).
We will raise a comprehensive reform of the OAS.
Our relations with the US were based on respect for our independence, reduction
current economic imbalances, in promoting fair trade, defense
our environment and biodiversity, a security policy that departs from our
own national interests and responsibility in the fight against drug trafficking and crime
organized.
8.5

SECURITY AND DEFENSE OF REGIONAL DEMOCRACY

Our democratic security policy is based on the Inter-American Democratic Charter,
defense of human rights, strengthening the Commission and the Court
Inter-American Human Rights, the International Criminal Court and with respect to treaties
international defense of human rights.
8.6

WORLD MULTIPOLAR

We do not support the configuration of a unipolar world in the international system.
We support the efforts of countries such as Russia, the European Union, the Republic
Popular China, Brazil and Japan and other countries, for the structuring of a multipolar world,
give balance to the international system, ensure the security of nations, respects
sovereignty of countries, promotes development, defends the environment and eliminate poverty.
In this context, we will seek a more efficient operation of all components
United Nations system and will give special importance to its role in the establishment
of a world order based on strict adherence to international law, the Declaration
Universal human rights and the peaceful settlement of disputes. We develop initiatives to
reform the United Nations system related to materials development, cooperation and
financing, in light of the distortions that causes the globalization process. Also
give renewed impetus to our participation in UN specialized agencies,
such as FAO, UNIDO, UNICEF and others.
We will promote the United Nations in an international regime to promote and safeguard the
fair and equitable sharing of benefits arising from the utilization of genetic resources
to prevent biopiracy. We will advocate for a greater influence of the United Nations
development of a system of fair economic relations, global economic policies in the
area of ​​international trade and financial relations and in their interactions with
Bretton Woods institutions, the WTO and other multilateral structures. Find
democratizing international relations and especially financial institutions like the
IMF, World Bank, IDB and multilateral trade organizations such as the WTO.
For the creation of this multipolar world we propose:
a) The strengthening of the CAN.
b) The creation of UNASUR and the reform of the inter-American system.
c) the strengthening of the United Nations, increasing the participation of all
countries in the decisions of that body.
d) The non-use of force and peaceful settlement of disputes.

195

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

e) In global disarmament.
f) respect for international treaties and institutions of international law.
g) The deepening of our relations with the European Union, the Russian Federation, the
China and our cooperation with the countries of the Pacific Rim.
h) Support the struggles of third world countries for their independence and their right to
developing.
8.7

GLOBALIZATION OF SOLIDARITY

The process of globalization does not distribute its benefits equitably among countries
developed and developing countries to stick to their neoliberal dogma. Countries
industrialized represent only 15% of the world's population, however, concentrated more
80% of global wealth. Large gaps and asymmetries persist in the global society.
As part of this process increases the vulnerability of developing countries to the
instability of global financial markets and the lack of regulation and control set
end to speculation financial profiteering. If we want to build ourselves as open societies
before the world must fight for fair and equitable relationships. The simple opening
economy generates sustainable development and increasing business productivity. Nor
single foreign trade leads to sustainable growth rates. Waive that only
the market decide on behalf of Peruvian society.
On the other hand, lack of knowledge acquisition exacerbates the gap between rich and
poor. Therefore, the acquisition of knowledge capital will be a central policy objective
Peru's foreign economic trade so that our world is more
competitive, and increase our productivity and make more sustained our growth
economic. We seek knowledge in industrialized countries, will not give or to
entrepreneurship and foreign capital to boost industrial and agro-industrial policy
specific, we strengthen Peruvian businesses and create joint ventures within the
part of a strategic development planning.
The economic dimension of the globalization process should not lead to the abdication of the
sovereignty or the state. The Peru have a strong state that is propelling the development and
only act in areas where the state can intervene. We develop both our market
internal and external. In this way, we will enter the globalization process so more
autonomous and sovereign. We are seeking greater access to international markets,
eliminate their asymmetries, impose limits on the distortions in the international financial system,
reduce excessive volatility of international capital flows in the short term, renew
Bretton Woods institutions, strengthen the G-20 to achieve a World Trade Organization
more equitable rules.
a) In the deepening of our relations with the Third World
b) In a new international financial and monetary architecture.
c) a fair international trade to promote development and economic independence,
especially in underdeveloped countries.
d) In the development of South-South trade
e) increased participation of developing countries in the World Bank and IMF.
f) The strengthening and development of regional organizations in financial and
monetary.
g) In promoting our development investments to promote and protect our
environment.
h) technology transfer.

196

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

i)

Stability and fair treatment to foreign investment within an economic policy
of respect for the rights of the State and of the Peruvian people to be the beneficiaries
immediate resources to generate our wealth and commodities.
j) a fair solution to the problem of external debt.
k) In respect of cultural diversity, defense of human rights and the fight against
racism.
8.8

PROJECTION OF OUR CULTURE

Our historical culture should be an important instrument of our foreign policy. It
It will help define our presence, increase our prestige in international relations and
increase our self-esteem as a nation in the process of globalization. In this context,
pay special attention to the signing of agreements that promote sustained,
articulated and coherent, the most profound expressions of our cultural, historical richness and
current, and crafts, literary, Peruvian cinema, music, clothing and fashion, gastronomy
Peruvian ingredients and so forth.
8.9

PERUVIAN FOREIGN

About two million compatriots living abroad. Their remittances are the second
factor of external financing of our economy and the Peruvian communities abroad
They are the expression of dynamic in relations with recipient countries Peru factors.
We establish policies and will refine ways to improve the situation of Peruvian
Exterior by supporting the documentary facilitation, consular services, information
about the country, registration and identification to promote their rights and obligations outside of Peru.
In particular, we will ensure the equivalence of professional qualifications accredited with
reciprocal basis.
8.10

Renewed political CONSULAR

Deepen protection and support to the Peruvian communities abroad, given that they
part of the nation and the Peruvian State. Therefore, the work of Peruvian Consulates
It will not be exhausted in the simple task of efficient service delivery, but links with
extensions of the population abroad, keeping them in the full exercise of their rights
citizens and attending to them promptly and carefully.
8.11

RESPECT FOR INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS

1) In relation to human rights, Peru will have a policy of respect for the Court
Penal International, the Inter-American Community of Enforced Disappearances
people and Convention 169 of the International Labour Organization on peoples
Indians.
2) On climate change we propose that progress in the implementation of the
commitments contained in the Framework Convention of the United Nations Climate Change
Climate and the Kyoto Protocol.

197

Committee on Government Plan 2011-2016

GANA PERU

3) We will promote international cooperation in security and defense, reaffirming
thus supporting international instruments establishing disarmament in all
shapes.
4) On the reform of the international financial system, we propose a new role
International Monetary Fund and the World Bank and the IDB
Development, to be reformulated for the participation and voice of a world
contribute to developing a more just and equitable environment.
8.12

INTERNATIONAL SOLIDARITY

1) We support the end of the economic blockade of Cuba.
2) We support the creation of a Palestinian state and the independence of the people
Saharawi.
3) The right of Argentina in the Falkland Islands.

198
