Lucho Castañeda: For all we live better

2

GOVERNMENT PLAN
BETTER LIVING FOR ALL
First the less fortunate
View
Mission
Macroeconomic Context

4
4
5

1. EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES

6











6
8
10
12
14
16
17
19
19

eleven
1.2
1.3
1.4
fifteen
1.6
1.7
1.8
1.9

Nutrition
Bless you
Education
Culture
Justice
Citizen security
Social programs
Women and family
Different abilities and disabilities

2. COMPETITIVENESS

21

2.1 SMEs
2.2 Science, Technology and Innovation
2.3 Foreign Trade and Integration in the World

3. OTHER POLICIES AND STRUCTURAL REFORMS

21
22
2. 3

3.1
3.2
3.3







3. 4
3.5
3.6


3.7

25
26
27
27
28
29
29
31
32
3. 4
35
37
41
43
4. 5
46

State reforms
The MEF and BCRP
Economic Sectors
3.3.1 Mining
3.3.2 Housing
3.3.3 Fishing
3.3.4 Transportation
3.3.5 Energy
3.3.6 Agriculture
3.3.4 Tourism and Handicrafts
Water
Corruption: Zero Tolerance
National Security and Defense
3.6.1 The threat of drug trafficking
3.6.2 Terrorism
Foreign policy

Lucho Castañeda: For all we live better

25

3

VIEW
Our main focus is the human being, in a just society that provides the entire population
access to quality services in education, health, nutrition, justice, security and recreation, in order
to reduce inequities that affect millions of Peruvians and contribute to a drastic reduction
poverty.
MISSION
Having a supportive, inclusive, efficient and transparent State; committed to the rational use of
public resources and increased productivity and competitiveness for sustained growth.
To achieve promotes science, technology, innovation and private investment; and undertakes to
strengthen the rule of law and improve the business climate.

Lucho Castañeda: For all we live better

4

MACROECONOMIC CONTEXT
There is currently a climate of high economic growth, price stability and external strength creation
job.
Given the average productivity of capital and current investment / GDP rate, the Peruvian economy is able
tendentiously growing about 6% annually over the next five years. Additionally, a climate of
political and social stability, together with an ambitious program of structural reforms, can be reflected
sustaining the boom in private investment and the poor absorption by the economy
market, so that GDP could expand at an average rate of 8% annually in the next five years.
That is, the economy could grow nearly 50% in five years. As a result, labor demand would increase
half a million jobs per year, totaling 2.5 million jobs. This labor demand
It would be covered by the supply of new employees entering the market each year and of those who
They have been displaced from jobs with lower quality (and therefore lower paid).
The annual inflation rate is about 2%, in a range compatible with the international context.

Lucho Castañeda: For all we live better

5

1. EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES
eleven

NUTRITION

IDENTIFICATION OF THE PROBLEM
- High prevalence of chronic malnutrition (measured by low height for age) among children under 5 years.
- Overweight or obesity linked to poor dietary practices has been increasing so
important, especially in big cities.
PROBLEM 1: high prevalence of chronic malnutrition
Diagnosis:
- According ENDES 2007-2010 the prevalence of chronic malnutrition in children under 5 years (low height for
age) has declined over the past three years but is still high, still critical in some areas
the saw.


or

It dropped from 28.5% (2007) to 23.6% (2010 first half).



or

It is higher in the mountain villages (35%) and forest (26%).

or



The regions with the highest percentage of children with chronic malnutrition are Huancavelica (54%),
Ayacucho (41%), Cajamarca (40%), Huanuco (39%), Pasco (38%), Cusco (38%), Apurimac (35%) and
Junin (34%).

- We have more chronically malnourished children that:


or

Chile 2%



or

Cuba 4.6%



or

Brazil 7.1%



or

Argentina 8.2%



or

Venezuela 15.6%



or

Colombia 16.2%.

- The delay in the growth of children is influenced by social, economic, cultural
and biological, including short stature of the mother, poor nutrient intake and anemia during
pregnancy, short duration of breastfeeding and poor micronutrient intake.
Proposals:
- Reduce the proportion of children with chronic malnutrition to less than 10%.
Policy actions:
- Strengthen the comprehensive, multisectoral approach that is taking the fight against malnutrition.

Lucho Castañeda: For all we live better

6

- Strengthen the efficiency of social programs aimed at improving the health of pregnant women.
- Promote regional policies aimed at improving the nutritional status of the general population,
emphasis on pregnant women.
- Encourage breeding programs and diet diversification in rural and inaccessible.
Specific actions:
- Chaining effectively together the conditions of provision and program results
achieved in the nutritional field.
- Intensify the intervention of social programs aimed at improving the nutrition of women
pregnant women and children in the geographic "pockets" where malnutrition is higher.
- Promoting best practice of breastfeeding.
- Include education for motherhood in educational programs.
- Promote the use of micronutrient-rich foods through school canteens in rural areas
and inaccessible.
- Establish competitive funding linked to promote interventions in the population on good
feeding practices.
- Providing school meals in primary and secondary levels, in areas of extreme poverty.
- Establish a Comprehensive Food Programme to ensure good nutrition in children age
preschool, in the areas of poverty.
- Protecting pregnant mothers through a program that includes the provision of folic acid and iron
throughout gestation.
PROBLEM 2: GROWING PROBLEM OF OBESITY IN MAJOR CITIES IN THE COUNTRY
Diagnosis:
- Problem linked to poor dietary practices. It has to do with income and less with disabilities
to access different types of food.
Proposals:
- Check the obesity problem in major cities.
Policy actions:
- Implement actions to promote good feeding practices.
- Develop nutritional surveillance systems nationwide.
- Involve local governments in the action of nutritional surveillance.

Lucho Castañeda: For all we live better

7

Specific actions:
- Implement a nutritional surveillance system nationwide.
- Strengthen local governments to administer and implement nutritional surveillance initiatives
in their jurisdictions.
- Establish competitive funding to develop initiatives to promote best practices
power directed to urban areas.
1.2

BLESS YOU

GENERAL CONTEXT
- 72% of seniors reported some disease symptoms, relapse or accident and only 34%
these demanded care at different health services (ENAHO 2008).
- Infant mortality has fallen from 33 per 1,000 live births (2000) to 20 per 1000 births
Live (2009); that is, the probability of dying during the first year of life is 1 in every 50
births.
- Neonatal mortality has decreased from 23 per 1000 live births (2000) to 13 by 1000
Live (2009) births; that is, the probability of dying at an early age is 1 in every 77
births.
- In recent years it has increased institutional delivery. In 2009 about 55% of births
rural areas took place in a health facility.
- 17% of children under three years presents some acute respiratory infection.
- There is a process of change in the patterns of health and disease. Noncommunicable diseases
They are overtaking communicable.
- There is a high incidence of tooth decay that affects the self-esteem of the poorest in the country, since there
They have resources to replace the damaged teeth.
Diagnosis:
- About 40% of the population receives some alteration in his health but very few
attend health services for lack of insurance, high costs, poor quality of care, time
long waiting, lack of continuity and others. The SIS does not cover all needs.
- There private infrastructure and public resources (EsSalud and military and police hospitals) and sub
used.
- Public performance based logic is not oriented towards the patient.
- The incentives do not point to improved efficiency and quality in health care because of
rules, procedures and dominance.
- The cost of drugs is high for levels of family income.

Lucho Castañeda: For all we live better

8

Problems identified:
PROBLEM 1: LIMITED ACCESS TO HEALTH SERVICES
Specific actions:
- Form a committee, in the first 100 days in office, to review the underwriting process
and set the next steps in order to achieve an "effective" assurance of the population,
mainly poor (secured to the SIS).
- Increase public insurance coverage to include all the poor and the extreme poor
country. Our starting principle is that every Peruvian should enjoy health insurance.
- To review and propose changes to the health system, establishing one that allows differentiation
roles.
- Use all the hospital infrastructure available in the country, especially in favor of the population
less favored.
- Strengthen the role and coverage of the Solidarity Hospital, in order to form a network
Institutions providing health services (hospitals nationwide Solidarity).
- Encourage the creation of specialized regional institutes for the care of patients
chronic degenerative and psychiatric diseases.
- To promote preventive health with participation of society.
- Establish annual increases of 0.25% of GDP in the budget of the health sector.
PROBLEM 2: POOR QUALITY OF PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICES
Specific actions:
- Ensuring a basic package of health which is accessible to all Peruvians.
- Implement a system of measuring the quality of health services by an entity
independently, with results that are public domain.
- Implement policies to improve the quality of care and patient safety, based
in the dignified treatment, risk reduction in the attention, participation, monitoring and evaluation.
- Promote initiatives of quality improvement in the health service through financing
competitive funds.
- Replicate successful scheme Solidarity Hospitals nationwide.
PROBLEM 3: MEDICATIONS inaccessible much of the population
Specific actions:
- Creating Solidarity Pharmacies nationwide.
- Ensuring the supply of generic drugs.

Lucho Castañeda: For all we live better

9

PROBLEM 4: HIGH IMPACT OF LOSS OF TEETH IN THE POOREST.
Concrete action:
- Create Smile Woman Program allows placing dentures to the poorest women, with the
in order to raise their dignity and self esteem.
- Develop mechanisms to facilitate dental care for the rest of the affected population.
1.3

EDUCATION

GENERAL CONTEXT
- Low quality of public education limits the country's competitiveness. Only 20% of students in 2nd
degree of public educational institutions achieved acceptable levels of reading comprehension and 10%
acceptable levels in mathematical logic area.
- Glaring inequities between public and private sectors, and between urban and rural.
- Coverage problems in early childhood education.
- Limited (3% of GDP) Resources and still below what was agreed in the National Accord (6%
PBI). While Peru invests $ 354 a year per student, intended Chile 1350 and the European Union more
of $ 4,000.
- There is progress in evaluating teacher performance and the establishment of "meritocracy", but
even a centralized and rigid education system that is resistant to introduce aspects of sample persists
internal efficiency.
-




Educational outcomes are still low but are improving, which obey various factors;
including increased teacher training and increasing empowerment of parents.
Complementarily contribute to this improvement the decrease in levels of child malnutrition and
progress in the fight against illiteracy.

Diagnosis:
- Teachers unprepared. There is a sort of "adverse selection" in which people with income
lower are teachers, colleges not accredited quality and most English teachers
They lack the appropriate skills and knowledge.
-. The test teachers did not adequately measure their capabilities (ie their performance in
Classroom); and when looking place in a school advertises processes is little
transparent.
- There are incentives to attract talented people to the career education.
- Educational content obsolete, with no connection to the global world.
- No encouraged to pursue technical education to students who do not have education as a priority
university.
- Low coverage of preschool education, especially in rural areas (about 400,000 children aged 3 to 5 years not.
are served), the PRONOEI provide poor services.

Lucho Castañeda: For all we live better

10

- The teaching of English, which is carried out from good weather, is of very poor quality.
- Educational outcomes are poor are in rural areas to be divorced from reality. The
Children are part of the family economy and malnutrition them unable to absorb capacity
cognitive.
PROBLEM 1: LOW QUALITY EDUCATION
Specific actions:
- Encourage the structuring of a different educational institutions.
- Ensure that all public schools have Internet access and virtual libraries.
- Establish the teaching of English as an area of ​​importance in the school curriculum from the
Initial education in both public and private IE ".
- Strengthen the PELA program (monitoring in the classroom) margins giving its own autonomy
function.
- Incorporate clear mechanisms for using the results of the Census 2nd Student Assessment.
Degree.
- Strengthen education decentralization in which local governments play a key role in
social monitoring of educational performance.
- Developing innovative models that promote the autonomy of management of IE.
- Strengthen the process of accreditation of Higher Technological Institutes that train teachers,
as well as the Higher Pedagogical Institutes.
- Implement a school calendar with a minimum of 1100 hours per year effective learning.
- Implement competitive funds to finance local initiatives for innovation in educational management.
- Increase teacher pay according to a meritocratic evaluation.
PROBLEM 2: LIMITED COVERAGE OF EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION
Specific actions:
- Develop a system Creating early education centers with direct state subsidy for
child (Solidarity Center Early Childhood Education).
- Convert the current PRONOEI in early education centers.
- Promote the creation of early childhood education centers.

Lucho Castañeda: For all we live better

eleven

PROBLEM 3: INEQUALITY BETWEEN THE RURAL / URBAN
Specific actions:
- To promote education models in alternation, with management autonomy of educational institutions
Public in rural areas.
- Promote the training of local communities in Educational Administration.
- To promote school meals programs in rural state schools.
PROBLEM 4: SMALL JOINT WORK WITH EDUCATION
Specific actions:
- Establish a program to accredit colleges and universities according to standards
established to ensure the quality of higher education.
- Create an information system where the public can know the results of the accreditation of
institutions of higher education.
- Promote the creation or strengthening of universities in line with the competitive advantages of the country (eg.
Biodiversity, forestry, mining, fishing, etc.).
- Setting up a general system of grants and loans for the best teachers and students of the
public schools have access to the best universities and graduate programs.
- Institutionalize / strengthening of competitive funding for universities and research centers
investigation.
1.4

CULTURE

GENERAL CONTEXT
-




Culture is now understood as the set of distinctive spiritual, material,
intellectual and emotional features of society or a social group. It includes not only of
arts and literature, lifestyles, fundamental rights of human beings, systems
values, traditions and beliefs.

-





In Peru developed the most important ancient civilizations of this continent, reason
why our nation has the main archaeological heritage of South America as well as
the most intense intercultural process derived from the existence of numerous mistresses companies
their own original cultural and linguistic manifestations, and their particular worldviews and
ancestral traditions that are the core of their identities and essential aspect of its diversity.

-




Also, our nation preserves the most remarkable archaeological remains of Andean culture -Caral,
Chavin, Nazca Lines, Chan Chan Machu Picchu inscribed on the World Heritage List
UNESCO world to exceptional natural territories are added as the National Park
Abiseo, Huascaran National Park and Manu National Park.

- No less important is the colonial legacy as composed of qualified cities
Cultural Heritage and extraordinary contributions in art as the Cuzco School

Lucho Castañeda: For all we live better

12




Painting, architectural and decorative style mestizo surperuano numerous religious and civil buildings
the Baroque period.

- Highly valuable heritage is also made up of traditional beliefs, celebrations
religious, folk festivals, cuisine, costumes and ancient jewelry, handicrafts,
natural landscapes, biological mega-diversity and its application in traditional medicine, etc.
- Like the irreplaceable value has bibliographic and documentary heritage of the country, which is the basis
of our history and of the various South American countries that comprised the former Viceroyalty
Peruvian.
- Peru currently coexist heirs of a cultural mega populations within a
unitary and democratic republic.
- We are the heirs of the greatest cultural expressions in South America and therefore
directly responsible for the preservation, research and dissemination of what constitutes the roots
our own country and current sister nations.
Diagnosis:
- The Ministry of Culture Deputy Minister of Multiculturalism motivates assessment is incorporated
Another function of a common project, as is the construction of the nation, which should be elaborated
basis of equality, mutual learning, participation and preventive conflict management.
Specific actions:
- Increase efficiency in supporting the creation and distribution of music, theater, literature, dance, film
and visual arts.
- To promote and enhance the protection, research and enhancement of our cultural heritage
(Archaeological, historical and artistic).
- Encourage school curricula have content in Quechua, Aymara and native languages,
in order to strengthen the students in their abilities and skills related to the culture and environment
regional.
- Promoting cultural programs of excellence through the Peruvian Institute of Radio and Television (IRTP).
- Strengthen the action of the National Institute of Development of Andean, Amazonian Peoples
Afroperuano (Indepa).
- Encourage private initiative in supporting cultural activities.
- Coordinate with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Peru cultural diffusion abroad.
- Promoting multilateral or bilateral signing of agreements for the protection and recovery
cultural, natural and intangible heritage of Peru.
- Arrange with regional governments standards and guidelines for the protection defense, conservation
and dissemination of Cultural Heritage of the Nation, and promotion, development of mechanisms, strategies
and programs with intercultural criteria.


Lucho Castañeda: For all we live better

13

fifteen

JUSTICE

GENERAL CONTEXT
- The service of justice has access problems, slowness and unpredictability of failures and large
public distrust.
- The prosecution requires deepen its modernization tends to blame everyone.
- Unfortunately, corruption crosses all components of the justice system.
- The National Police is little respected and does not inspire confidence. It also takes a lot of
tasks that do not allow it to fulfill its primary role fully.
- The judiciary has a very efficient system of internal control.
- Our culture of prosecution congested all levels of the system.
- Approximately one million court cases are pending resolution.
- Prisons are overcrowded and degrading conditions. The prison system has
Approximately 45,000 detainees (30% and 70% sentenced processed).
- There is no real rehabilitation and there is no permanent or complete control into all
criminal.
- The INPE lacks a law that regulates its operation; insufficient prison staff.
Diagnosis:
- Cumbersome processes and centralized by the side of the actors of justice services
(National Police, prosecutors, judiciary). On the side of the citizen: Distrust,
corruption, ignorance and economic factor.
- Processes are excessively long and practically is in the discretion of the judge
extension in time.
- The resolution of the judicial process becomes a total uncertainty for citizens, as
there is no objective evidence that allows to have a confidence about the results of
Process.
- Lack of predictability in the decisions creates legal uncertainty, which affects the country's competitiveness.
- Poor coverage in the popular sectors.
PROBLEM 1: ACCESS TO JUSTICE SYSTEM IS LIMITED
Specific actions:
- Decentralize the Chambers of the Supreme Court, establishing regional headquarters.
- Implement a Promotion Programme via extrajudicial dispute resolution methods.

Lucho Castañeda: For all we live better

14

- Establish the Civil Service of Justice for newly graduated lawyers, so that strengthen
first courts (Magistrates' Courts and mechanisms of arbitration and conciliation).
- Implement quality and specialized care Guidance and free character
vulnerable groups.
PROBLEM 2: slow processes
Specific actions:
- To prioritize the effective implementation of the new Criminal Procedure Code (NCCP) nationwide.
- Promoting the creation of greater opportunities for reconciliation and types of disputes that can
be resolved by alternative means of conflict resolution.
- Strengthen the system of arbitration and conciliation between private business problems for amounts
less than 10 UIT.
- Reduce the time and cost of judicial and administrative processes.
- Establish guidelines oralization civil and administrative proceedings.
- Strengthen the peace courts, both in quantity and quality through the Civil Service of Justice.
- Create mechanisms for administrative control of penalties, thus alleviating prison overcrowding.
PROBLEM 3: unpredictability in court decisions
Specific actions:
- Implement a system to enable that court judgments can be found on the web, without
restrictions.
- Implement an annual evaluation system of legal criteria applied to judgments by
specialty; The evaluation would be under the responsibility of AMAG; Evaluation results
They would be published on web and other media.
- Strengthen the actions of the OCMA, especially at the regional level.
PROBLEM 4: POOR PRISON SYSTEM
Specific actions:
- Strengthen the INPE through a law that regulates its operation, providing human resources
and materials.
- Remove the prison deficit with new prisons and faster judicial proceedings.
- Prioritizing reintegration into society through work, so the INPE to fulfill its role.

Lucho Castañeda: For all we live better

fifteen

1.6

CITIZEN SECURITY

GENERAL CONTEXT
-





Civic peace and tranquility in Peru is a priority, Peruvians can not continue
living with the uncertainty generated insecurity and the effects of its overt violence. Between
Possible causes of this violence is that 45% of households in conflict, where
youth living that family violence, forming gangs moved into the neighborhood and then to the city
in various criminal acts.

-







Public Safety System is extremely inefficient, unresponsive to
and citizens' demands and expectations rather is leaving people defenseless,
being often take justice into their own hands. Justice operators
(Police, prosecutors, judges and prison managers) are not fulfilling their purpose
constitutional functions and to guarantee the free exercise of rights, protect life and
property, maintain public order and peaceful coexistence, investigate and prosecute
crime, administer justice, preventing crime and rehabilitate lawbreakers.

-




There are no adequate instruments to know precisely the extent of the problem of insecurity
civic and real trends; but the few statistics and surveys which have, indicate
that the fundamental problem of insecurity is the theft and robbery, both to individuals and households; he
kidnapping in its various forms is one of the threats of greatest concern to the public.

- In the capital there 410 composed of 12,128 youth and adult gangs, concentrated in Lima South
North Lima and mainly committing crimes against property, assault and interruption free
transit.
PROBLEM 1: THE CURRENT SYSTEM OF NATIONAL POLICE remunerative affects morale
OF ITS MEMBERS AS WELL AS THE CAPTURE OF NEW MEMBERS AND CAPACITY
Retention of existing staff, opening the door to corruption
- Increase progressively rational and remunerative levels of police personnel, according to
indicators of performance.
PROBLEM 2: THE PUBLIC SAFETY IS NOT COMPREHENSIVE TACKLES
Concrete proposals:
- Create a comprehensive security system that includes systems, measures, methods, techniques and
procedures to prevent the commission of crimes and prevent risks in damage of citizens,
facilities and values.
- Design plans and programs to a new culture of safety by developing
communication strategies, courses, conferences and inclusion in schools, universities and technical curricula.
- Making available to combat and prevent criminal acts technology and exchange
of information between the different actors in charge of security in the country (National Police of Peru,
Private security, judiciary, etc.).

Lucho Castañeda: For all we live better

16

Problem 3: Inefficient management INADEQUATE PUBLIC SAFETY AND LEGAL FRAMEWORK
Specific actions:
- Restructure comprehensively the Interior Ministry.
- Revise laws of citizen security system, Criminal Code, Civil Defense System
prison and regulations, so as to introduce, among others, the accumulation of penalties, effective prison
and a real social rehabilitation of the inmate.
- Effectively increase the number of police patrolling all cities, duly
prepared and equipped.
- Recover the ethical, moral and professionalism of the police to make it the most important capital
citizen security system.
- Ensuring a decent quality of life to staff of the national police, particularly in aspects of
and health personnel who have become disabled in the line of duty.
PROBLEM 4: LIMITED operational responsiveness against youth gangs, CRIME
AND CRIME
Specific actions:
- Repower the curators equipping them with new technologies, vocational training and increased
personal.
- Improve the capacity and response time to requests for relief and emergencies, making
the Central Emergency 105, as the only Citizen Service System.
- Implement the National Crime Observatory to develop the capacity of information
analysis of the real situation and trend of the common criminal groups, organized, scattered
and subversive.
- To promote organized citizen participation in the identification and prevention of clear risks and
Undercover, such as micro drug marketing and monitoring of "brands".
- Create Itinerant Citizen Pacification Units against gang violence and crime
Common, comprising police, municipality, judiciary, prosecution, education, health and representatives
of the society.

1.7
SOCIAL PROGRAMS
Diagnosis:
- While poverty and extreme poverty has been reduced in recent years; their levels are still high
(2009 Poverty: 34.8% Extreme Poverty: 11.5%).
- Persists vulnerability and social exclusion for segments of the population. While the dynamics
economy is one of the main factors contributing to poverty reduction; has not yet
come strongly to all sectors and geographic areas of the country.

Lucho Castañeda: For all we live better

17

- The context in which the country is moving from welfare to require an emphasis on development
capacities in social policy.
Goal:
Reduce the incidence of poverty to 20% by the end of 2016.
Policy actions:
- Promote actions to improve the quality of spending in programs to combat poverty.
- Promoting participation and social empowerment.
- Strengthen the process of decentralization of social welfare programs.
Specific actions:
- Increase resources for social programs.
- Professionalize human resources linked to social programs.
- Implement an information system, monitoring and evaluation of social spending. Make it access
public.
- Strengthen the process of integration and coordination of social programs.
- Implement a unique system of targeting beneficiaries of social programs.
- Develop a system of complaint from users of social services.
- Institutionalize accountability to beneficiaries of social intervention.
- Promote the decentralization of social programs (especially welfare-type).
- Strengthen the management capacities in the social in the Regional and Local level.
- Reducing the administrative costs of current social programs and set policies shopping more
convenient.
- In cases of cold spell in the mountains, creating the Solidarity System Tambos to have supply
and preventive medicine, for which covers that protect the low temperatures were implemented and
animals that are the main source of income of the poorest are cared for.
- Generate income for the poorest, through the payment for hours in rural areas
for the repair of platforms, reforestation, dry forest, among others. It will be done in cities
through community work.

Lucho Castañeda: For all we live better

18

1.8

WOMEN AND FAMILY

Diagnosis:
- While women are taking a leading role in recent decades in the
society still need to be integrated intensely political, economic and cultural life of our country.
- A high percentage of women physically and psychologically abused and raped outside and
inside their homes.
- It is not yet equal opportunities between men and women is evident, once all the latter are
many are limited to get a job or access to credit, either because of their age, marital status times,
number of children she has or their ages, education level, among others.
-




Family disintegration is due to the progressive loss of values ​​and principles, mainly
by ignorance their duties as parents or the lack of responsibility to address them. This has
caused a lot of children and youth abandoned in the streets, giving due
exploitation and child prostitution.

Specific actions:
- Create opportunities for all and all Peruvians, regardless of gender, promoting and
improve existing laws.
- Strengthen programs cribs (Wawa Wasi) for the children of working women are
maintained and properly cared for and may be supported their roles in the family and work.
- Provide greater resources and strengthen the skills and knowledge of women in nutritional matters
and gastronomy, based on soup kitchens, mothers' clubs and glass of milk.
- Create centers and Refugee Protection where child victims of exploitation and prostitution
Children are protected and integrated into society.
- To protect victims of domestic violence and to ensure their physical and psychological protection. There will be
actual arrest for offenders.
1.9

DIFFERENT SKILLS AND DISABILITY

GENERAL CONTEXT
- The state and society have a paternalistic attitude towards people with disabilities, which reveals
clearly the level of discrimination against this vulnerable group.
- Lack of political will reflected in budgetary limitations to assist with the inclusion of
persons with disabilities on an equal basis in different social programs and
public services.
- Limited existence of participatory forums involving people and organizations of people
with disabilities in public life.

Lucho Castañeda: For all we live better

19

Diagnosis:
- Disability affects 13.08% of the Peruvian population, ie about 3.7 million people.
Less than 5% of them of school age go to school, 81.19% have never received rehabilitation and
only 2.25% of working age are employed properly.
-




Due to the widespread ignorance, prejudice and discrimination in society, people with
disabilities are prevented from participating on an equal basis with others
citizens in various forms of economic, political and social of our communities,
and to participate in decisions that affect their lives.

-





The difficulties that people with disabilities face barriers due to lifting
the company itself and the state, and not on their physical, sensory or mental deficiencies. Exist
serious difficulties in the design of policies, plans and projects and the allocation of
budgetary resources, aimed at improving the living conditions of people with disabilities.
This needs to be addressed and overcome to concrete actions for the benefit of this group.

-





Urge promote universal design and inclusive planning as tools to include
vulnerability and disability perspective in policies, programs and actions developed
by the State and international cooperation, taking into account the International Convention on
the rights of the disabled person and the Plan of equal opportunities for people with
disabilities.

-






It is essential to promote the development of skills of people with disabilities and their
organizations so that they can participate in the design, regulation, monitoring and evaluation
plans, programs, projects and services. In this one it looks at the progress made in
Sites on disability, achieved thanks to the influence, participation, proposals
and lobbying developed by people with disabilities and organized properly
coordinated and concerted actions, in partnership with other social actors.

Proposals:
- To promote access for people with special capabilities:


or

Programs of rehabilitation, recovery and capacity development.



or

Social Programs.



or

Education



or

Job



or

Bless you.

- Establish a program of subsidies for bio mechanical aids for all types of disability:
psychomotor, visual and auditory.
- Add the variable of disability in all surveys, censuses and statistical studies
programmed and developed, such as the National Household Survey - ENAHO Survey
Health - DHS, called "continuous census," the Permanent Employment Survey (EPE), etc.

Lucho Castañeda: For all we live better

20

2. COMPETITIVENESS
21

SMEs

Identification of the problem:
- Low levels of productivity.
- High rate of informality (over 70%).
- Low partnership and coordination with medium and large companies.
- Low access and inappropriate use of ICT and technology (CTI sera?).
- Low access to financing.
- Low access to new markets.
- Low capacity of management.
- Baja identity and corporate culture.
Diagnosis:
- Scattering state effort to support SMEs, both in human resources
financial.
- Insufficient access to business development services (access to markets, training, innovation
technological and quality).
- Difficulties in access to formal and competitive financial system (the existing appropriations have high costs
administrative and interest).
- The weak factor of SMEs is in the institutions, in the absence of a national plan transversely,
considering the geographical and sectoral aspects.
-




Implemented not have the domestic agenda for productivity and competitiveness of SMEs,
most today called industrial parks (24) has its own law and have no property
where implemented. In other cases, legal problems have physical sanitation and, mostly,
lack of basic infrastructure.

- Do not have enough systematic and comprehensive information on SMEs.
Proposals:
-




Create an institution promoting the highest level of the State to promote the business potential
SMEs. Its functions have the specialized training and technical assistance, promoting
international business for the proper use of Free Trade Agreements and
market development both internally and externally.

- Promote greater coverage and expertise in financing for SMEs, promoting
reduced interest rates and longer terms of repayment.

Lucho Castañeda: For all we live better

21

- Develop the "my market" through the land availability and modernization
Infrastructure food markets and shopping centers, including implementation
wholesale markets nationwide.
- Strengthen the development of industrial parks, productive chains, and implement existing clusters
the development of industrial and technological cities.
2.2

SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION

Identification of the problem:
-




Low investment in science, technology and innovation - CTI (0.15% of GDP, with two thirds of resources
public). In Latin America the average is 0.64% according Ricyt, and in leading countries such as Japan,
They reached 3%, with only a third of public investments. But investing in CTI is profitable for the
Government, universities and businesses.

-




The resources of the canon (S / 800 million intended for investment in STI in universities) will only have
used S / 40 million for lack of decentralized projects. There is no national system
Innovation is just as legal pipe dream. CONCYTEC, as the governing body of CTI, not shown
able to build and coordinate with other actors (company-state-Academy).

- Low production of patents, journal articles, leak underpaid researchers,
gaps between University, State and Business. IDB funds since 2008 has enabled the FINCYT
technological innovation projects, but runs the risk of losing autonomy.
Diagnosis:
- Scarce resources and atomized projects, offering biased by the academy for research
fundamental. usually not applied, or on the side of private demand in the medium and large
company with limited social and economic impact, expanding university-industry gap.
-

Misallocation of public resources to a perceived as a priority sector, whose
maturing in the long run no political priority is therefore no resources are allocated
significant at national and regional level. The theme of the culture of science and technology are not valued
economic and social viability of research and development, through product innovations,
services and processes at public and private level in the medium and long term.

-






There is no articulated line basis on projects, research, scientific,
at national, regional and sectoral levels, patents and systematic information on the situation of CTI
country beyond data points. This does not allow a proper understanding of the status quo or
Targeting future scenarios based on research, development and innovation, allowing
calibrate important impacts in the future, from a strategic planning that is not CEPLAN
Current conditions feasible.

Proposals:
- Creating a National Innovation System it will be led by the State, in close coordination with the
business sector and the academic and scientific community.
- Conduct a census of CTI at the level of public and private supply and demand, and major
actions of agents involved. The result will be a baseline that shows clearly what

Lucho Castañeda: For all we live better

22




progress to date and the main gaps and prospects, including a prospective report
CTI future in a broad horizon.

-




-

-






Strengthen the competitive FINCYT Funds with the necessary autonomy requires an institution
specializing in allocating future resources of the IDB (FINCYT 2), other disbursement programs
Initial (FIDECOM) and other lines that can be obtained via international technical cooperation and resources
own.
Business Incubators Promote young technology-based universities
Set two major lines of development. The first, for the economic sector, where sectoral level
It emphasizes agribusiness, natural products, ICT, fisheries and textiles, through
collective actions in clusters - asparagus and vegetables, metalworking and industry
services. The second line of development will be aimed at the promotion of CTI in social areas
such as nutrition, health, housing, and defense and to combat drug trafficking and common crime. The
CTI is a cross table with ample opportunities and broader horizon.

2. 3

TRADE AND INTEGRATION INTO THE WORLD

GENERAL CONTEXT.
- The foreign trade-oriented SMEs account for only 2% value pyramid structure
inverted concentrated in large companies.
- High dependence on traditional exports (mining, fishmeal, coffee) with a degree of
openness X + M / GDP, close to 40%.
- Underestimate, counterfeiting, smuggling, unfair competition and port and logistical problems
customs clearance still hinder the flow and generate cost overruns in the process of imports in
country (especially machinery, equipment, supplies and finished goods).
Diagnosis:
-




The Free Trade Agreement with USA, Canada, countries of Asia, Latin America and agreements
process with trade in Europe and elsewhere, are a means and not an end. The most important
It is to build a domestic agenda of competitiveness that allows the use of opportunities
national and international markets.

-





Scarce resources for effective promotion of so-called non-traditional sectors such as
agribusiness, textile manufacturing, fishery products for human consumption, flagship products,
gastronomy, services and trade, among others. They continue to occur discontinuities and high rates of
rejection in important target markets consolidate hindering sustained growth niches
the medium and long term in the major international markets.

- Poor training and livelihood of delaying tactics and inefficiency in public authorities
and private responsible for the chain of port, logistic and customs services that require high
expertise and know-how with expertise validated.
Specific actions:
- Provide targeted opportunities in major world economies after the crisis of 2008,
including not only the US and Europe, but also prioritizing the "BRIC" countries, and some APEC
Latin American countries in a pragmatic, effective and inclusive.

Lucho Castañeda: For all we live better

2. 3

-










Moving from the comparative advantages that give us our natural resources competitive advantages
dynamic to achieve. This requires specialized service programs as economic diplomacy
career, with a comprehensive policy on foreign trade development, investment and transfer
technology MINCETUR led, through a strengthened eat PROMPEX case
ProChile or APEX Brazil. Foreign trade services for commercial and technological missions,
trade fairs, industry training, for product export sectors
flag at the decentralized level, and international collective action will be the subject of an important
support economic and technical resources. The locomotive is in and support to them
actors in each region are the masters of their destiny, exporting and providing currency to be invested
in the decentralized development of Peru.

-









Strengthen customs modernization through specialized customs (currently integrated
in SUNAT) to combat all practices that hinder the process of foreign trade and evade
illegal taxation practices. port investment will be promoted according to the needs
real country to increase its competitiveness in the medium and long term, pointing to convert to
Callao into a leading international hub in the Pacific Rim and to improve logistics connectivity
across the country targeting a broader horizon. We achieve regional leadership for the rest of
world with our main trading partners, leveraging our advantageous location in the
central South America, facing the Pacific as the most dynamic foreign trade zone and
World investment.

Lucho Castañeda: For all we live better

24

3. OTHER POLICIES AND STRUCTURAL REFORMS
3.1

State reforms

GENERAL CONTEXT
- The State favors only a part of the population in access to justice, education, health and
personal security.
- This situation has to be corrected from the root, restructuring and simplifying the mechanisms for
These services reach all Peruvians.
-




Despite the country's progress in economic bureaucratic barriers persist
access to new ventures and business expansion. In 2009, INDECOPI
it ruled against the district municipalities in Metropolitan Lima 65% of claims
imposition of bureaucratic barriers.

- The last state decentralization process is stagnating. The regions have
formed on the base of the departmental demarcation, it has not completed the transfer of
skills, or adequate legal framework to the new economic and social landscape of the country.
- There remain various regimes of access to public administration that prevent adequate and
efficient management of human resources. The number of public employees is unknown levels
remunerative and productivity of workers in the state.
PROBLEM 1: THE STATE IS NOT SERVING THE CITIZEN
Specific actions:
- Ensure access to transparency portals and other media to make public administration
and results.
- Strengthening the principle of subsidiarity of the State through the full allocation of roles and
powers to the levels of government closest to citizens.
PROBLEM 2: barriers remain bureaucratic than discourage investment
Specific actions:
- Eliminate bureaucratic barriers through intensive state administrative simplification.
- Implement the Public Service Code with concrete commitments for improvement and establishment of
penalties for poor service.
- Create Information System Monitoring and Administrative Procedures.
- Create Citizen Service Platform and extend to the whole public administration the window
Attention only.

Lucho Castañeda: For all we live better

25

PROBLEM 3: The process of decentralization and relationships between different
LEVELS OF GOVERNMENT IS NOT THE MOST APPROPRIATE
Specific actions:
- Redefine the roles and responsibilities at all levels of government so that better be provided
service to citizens and efficient use of public resources is made.
- Setting a new agenda of decentralization for the next 10 years.
-


-


Encourage the formation of regions as a way to achieve better and more equitable conditions
developing.
Encourage the formation of poles of alternative development Lima, enabling a process sustained
development within the country.

3.2

MEF and BCRP

MEF New Role:
The MEF has at its disposal the necessary tools to design and implement various structural reforms.
As in the 90, it s multilateral institutions like the IMF, World Bank and IDB loans performed
conditional program advances now MEF has budgetary powers to
major reforms in two areas: social inclusion and competitiveness.
Social inclusion:
Improve universal public services such as education, health, security and justice. Across
a budget allocation for results, reforms in these four massive utilities
They can be carried out annual targets for quality and coverage.
Competitiveness:
The MEF will continue to fund the expansion of productive infrastructure such as highways and
roads, electricity, broadband internet, water and sanitation, both in investment patterns
public, and private initiative and public-private partnerships.
Implement a new law to formalize labor relations make it more affordable for
Most micro and small enterprises. Also, within an integrated system of innovation,
will relaunch as INCAGRO programs, cites, Fondoempleo and others.
Finally, there is room for further productive development policies, where the state covers failures
market and lower transaction costs for the private sector, with emphasis on SMEs.
Tax Policy:
Taxation is a key instrument of economic policy and serves the welfare of the
person and society. It is essentially an economic phenomenon and constitutes one of the foundations of
macroeconomic stability. The revision of our economic history reveals that one of the difficulties
leading to the advancement of Peruvian life has been and is tax failure.
A summary diagnosis of the current situation reveals problems in the system, in code and in the
tax administration. This creates a complex tax system that moves away from reality and
It is unable to provide the resources that the Peruvian State required for a transition to growth
sustainable building equity.

Lucho Castañeda: For all we live better

26

A primary aspect of the pending tax debate is the constitutional autonomy of the SUNAT. The
taxation that Peru needs to build equity in the country, must be protected from the influence
political operators and professionals serving special interests groups.
The expected economic growth is accompanied by higher revenues. However, unmodified
current tax rates there is room for reducing VAT evasion and income. Through a
improved tax administration, revenue could increase by up to 3 percentage points of GDP
during the five years of government.
Monetary Policy:
Central Bank autonomy is guaranteed. The objectives of the Central Bank as price stability and
Administration functioning of the payment system are maintained. The management of reserves
follows current international principles, favoring liquidity. The voluntary dollarization of the
Economics is a desired goal strengthening monetary policy and allows for greater flexibility
exchange.
3.3

ECONOMIC SECTORS

3.3.1 MINING
Diagnosis:
- There are still conflicts over water use and effects on the environment.
- High informality of small mining.
- The mining canon resources are not used efficiently by the weak institutions of the
local governments.
- The current system of mining royalties is not efficient, not being a direct function of contributions
international.
Specific actions:
-




Improve systems for approval of environmental impact studies and greater participation
and political authorities and civil society. That is, a greater part before the engagement of ex
Vice Ministry of Mines, Ministry of Environment, Ombudsman's regional government, town
provincial and district, churches and NGOs involved in the sector.

- Check the marketing of products from informal mining. Both at
licensing, tax issues and repression of informal activities. Alternative Development Plan
for informal miners displaced by the new public policy, prior census.
- Support from Serve, involved ministries and MEF, local governments where they are located the
mineral resources, with technical expertise in the areas of procurement, public investment and management
public.
- Fully respect the Legal Stability Agreements (CEJ). For new projects, and if it
required by companies sign new LSA, under conditions favorable to the Peruvian State.
- For new projects a royalty system based on international prices will be raised, but
below those prevailing in competing countries for mining investment.

Lucho Castañeda: For all we live better

27

3.3.2 HOUSING
Identification of the problem:
- There is a shortfall of 1.5 million housing nationwide that is not covered with 180,000
units built annually.
- Urban areas are not ready for mass housing construction. There is a shortage of lots
Suitable for this purpose.
- Uncontrolled growth in urban peripheries. Invasions and informality have caused
48% of the population does not have adequate water and sewage, and 74% not available
electric power. 85% of households there have been self-constructed.
- There are 7.9 million people live in houses located in insecure areas (hills, slopes, banks
Rivers, at the foot of the volcano, etc.) and are highly exposed to natural disasters of various kinds
(Rains, landslides, earthquakes, etc.).
- There are sectors of the population who lack title to.
Diagnosis:
- The current housing programs are not sufficient to meet demand.
- Local governments have not provided adequate urban zoning.
-




No plans have been developed urban expansion, currently, new developments arise
Allotment of the large private and public spaces, without reasonable planning criteria for
housing, industrial areas, green areas, equipment, etc .; and therefore, no shortage of
basic services.

- Pressure population for access to housing near areas of increased economic activity,
services, equipment, generated it is making land unfit to live; sometimes without real control of
The authority.
Specific actions:
-




Solidarity Housing implement programs enabling state-owned land. They
strengthen the Proper ceiling and Own Site program, increasing funding for families
low income. And in addition to boost the Banco de Materiales and service companies
drinking water and sewerage.

- Institutionalize and operationalize the regulation of urban planning, articulating goals
territorial competitiveness and growth targets sustainable urban development, involving for
it involved all sectors.
- Implement a national risk mitigation program for homes in
habitability vulnerable rehabilitating dilapidated and overcrowded urban areas (walls, filters,
waterways, drainage, reinforcement of slopes, etc.).
- Encourage the formalization of the premises, speeding the delivery of titles and
desburocratizando procedures at the municipal offices and in the public records.

Lucho Castañeda: For all we live better

28

3.3.3 FISHING
GENERAL CONTEXT
- Peru is the leading exporter of fishmeal in the world and is the repository of one of
5 most important fishing areas in the world.
- Existence of illegal fishing, overfishing, and avoidance of closures and fishing quotas.
- Lack of security and social benefits for artisanal fishermen.
- Inadequate or poor for the work of artisanal fisheries infrastructure.
Diagnosis:
- There are adequate resources for the actions of control or oversight for compliance
dues.
- Persists predation of aquatic resources.
Specific actions:
- Ensure access of artisanal fishers to social security and pension schemes.
- Improving port infrastructure, piers and docks craft, giving the fishermen
services needed to perform their tasks.
- Strengthen the Instituto del Mar del Peru (IMARPE) to provide it with the resources, tools and support for
to fulfill its functions.
- Strengthen the National Maritime Authority for the control and safety of vessels
fishing, both for immediate action against any accidents at sea and to detect and
prevent illegal or prohibited activities, including ships entering without authorization.
- Promote direct consumption of fish and other aquaculture products.
- Promoting aquaculture throughout the country.
3.3.4 TRANSPORT
Importance of the shuttle:
- It is accepted that reducing trade costs increases the productivity of economies.
These costs include all costs incurred to bring an asset to the end user, including
to transport them.
- An estimated 10% reduction in freight increases the likelihood of inefficient firms exit
by 1.5%. In other words, a reduction of 10% in freight increases productivity by 0.7%.
-




One of the inputs of the transport service is infrastructure. Regarding the quality of the entire
infrastructure, Peru is ranked 88 out of a total of 139 countries. The infrastructure component
port is the laggard, ranking 133 on this item and the second worst is the
road infrastructure.

Lucho Castañeda: For all we live better

29

Diagnosis:
-




The scope for reducing transportation costs is significant. In 2006 the relationship between the
freight and ad valorem tariffs for exports to the United States was approximately 5-1.
In other words, freight Peru spends 60% more than it spends Brazil to import their goods and 17%
more than what is spent on average in Latin America.

-





These higher transportation costs compared with developed countries, are partly explained
by differences in the weight-value ratio. Goods that Peru exports are "heavier" than
Export United States or Europe. Grains, minerals and commodities in general
They have a high weight in relation to their value. Therefore, poor transport infrastructure and
can reduce costly rents can be obtained from natural resources.

- A second factor that explains the difference in transportation costs is the infrastructure efficiency
ports and airports. As data is to be efficient ports and airports explain
about 40% of differences in transportation costs between Latin America and the United States.
-






In terms of port productivity that can be extended to Peru, you have that Latin America is
far below the productivity of Asian countries. Latin America has a productivity
70 000 TEU per crane year, while in Southeast Asia is 100 thousand TEU per crane year. This same
difference in productivity remains give the dock, as Latin America has a production
250 TEU per year underground spring, while Southeast Asia has 700 TEUs per meter of quay
per year.

- Although costs have reduced national transport, there is room to reduce them further.
-




This was due to the improvement of the national road network. 13.2 thousand kilometers messed Year
2007, got 4.6 thousand kilometers in 2010. This was due to national spending
Repair and maintenance increased from 874 million soles in 2006-3400000000 soles in
2009.

- Future challenges is closing the infrastructure gap, estimated at US $ 7.3 billion in
Road and US $ 2.4 billion in infrastructure railway infrastructure.
-





It will also be improved if it can reduce congestion on urban passenger transport. Some data
to the transport system of Lima show the magnitude of the problem: the average travel time
for a worker it is 1.5 to 3 hours daily, and the average age of the fleet is 16 years,
reaching a maximum of 25 years. In the last ten years, the public transport fleet grew from 10
to 60 thousand units. This situation also occurs in cities such as Arequipa, Trujillo and Chiclayo.

-




Reducing informality. There is a fragmented offering of urban transport service. 90% of the fleet
Public transport consists of low-capacity vehicles (minibuses and station wagon)
and the other buses 10% (4500 units). The number of cars that have the families of Lima
Metropolitan is about 420 thousand units.

Specific actions:
- Build Highway Los Andes and integrating axis of the country, with a total of 3,529 km.
- Built (at asphalting) 1,785 km .; implemented by the MTC 276 km .; with study
final (to start immediately) 1,201 km .; without project (to start definitive studies) 267 km.

Lucho Castañeda: For all we live better

30



This will consolidate the economic growth and development in the Andean region of Peru.













The direct beneficiaries are 10 departments, which are counted among those with the highest
extreme poverty as Apurimac, Huancavelica, Ayacucho and Pasco, which may count
with the possibility of placing its products in more markets and better prices. Incorporated 150 thousand
hectares of new land for export crops.
It will allow the creation of new tourist circuits that generate revenue for the benefit of the
population, especially in rural areas of extreme poverty.
In total, the Road of the Andes will directly benefit 10 million Peruvians and will generate
during construction 10,000 direct jobs and 100,000 indirect jobs.
All these benefits will be achieved taking into account the social, environmental and economic impact of
populations in its area of ​​influence, in addition to a full understanding of the potential benefits of
this important way.

- Strengthen domestic and international intermodal transport as a tool for development
and increased efficiency. The existence of clear and fair rules not only encourages competition between
various modes of transport, but also allows cooperation between them.
-




Continue with the introduction of modern methods of operations in the port system with a
reduced waiting times and increased the capacity of clearance of ships. Some
these methods are the introduction of electronic cargo tracking and modern equipment
loading and unloading.

-

Improve airport efficiency, mainly from the provinces. Except for some
Airport and port services, much of the business operations and loading and unloading
at airports and ports may be subject to the forces of competition. Where this is not
possible, should be strengthened and adequate regulation based on market principles.

- Reduce inefficiencies in the customs system. These may be due to the complexity of the
forms, procedures and customs clearance, the lack of coordination between services
phytosanitary and customs, among others.
- Encourage intermodal competition and improve the quality of the national road system.
-





Reduce traffic congestion in urban centers. Several measures must be analyzed as
election or not of a mass transit system, improving road signs, synchronization
traffic lights, change direction of traffic flow, establishing rails
for the exclusive use of buses and eventually the construction or expansion of roads. This option menu
It must be evaluated and choose the most effective and lowest cost.

3.3.5 ENERGY
GENERAL CONTEXT
- The provision of energy is key to the process of economic development. In the next
years we will have a greater demand, hence the importance of expanding energy supply and
need to further promote investment in the sector.
- Energy policy must ensure security of supply (quality), the efficient provision of
energy (at the lowest possible cost), the sustainability of the same (renewable sources) and expansion
coverage (in rural and urban areas).

Lucho Castañeda: For all we live better

31

- The most important problem of electricity generation is that the rate of supply growth is lower
the growth in demand.
- There is a distortion of some relative prices of fuels in the hydrocarbon sector.
- The gas has a priority use of domestic consumption and the production of higher value products
added.
Specific actions:
- Promoting changes in the energy matrix of Peru, based on the momentum of development of sources
available, renewable and sustainable, such as: hydropower, solar energy, wind energy and
biofuels.
- Ensure that canon gas resources are intended for those who have less education,
technology, infrastructure, health, environmental protection and safety.
- Give priority to domestic gas demand. The Camisea gas: Peruvians first, to the best prices and
with strengthened regulation.
- Prioritize the generation of clean energy.
- Promote the granting of generation, transmission and distribution in rural areas and the
development and use of small-scale renewable energy (mini hydro).
- Promote the construction of regional pipelines to meet demand through concessions
gas distribution.
3.3.6 AGRICULTURE
GENERAL CONTEXT
- Agricultural activity is the driving force of regional economies and boosts growth
the towns of the interior.
-








Agricultural producers occupy a territory complex by the diversity of its biology and its
ecosystems and also subject to great climatic variability. They are the first link
agro industrial chains and they linked to an extensive network of services and channels
marketing. Supplying food to urban consumers and produce materials
Premiums for industrial food chains, textiles, furniture, building materials,
energy, cosmetics, dyes, among others. So the agricultural sector employs and generates revenue as
of the population. They also help earn foreign exchange by exporting 34% of the products do not
traditional.

- Work in the countryside and in rural areas is also a lifestyle with ancestral knowledge,
repository of ancient Andean culture with traditions of community work and worldview
integrated and in harmony with nature and the environment.
- If agriculture is capitalized, it increases productivity and strengthens organizations and producers
public institutions that provide services to the companies, the poorest population
inland increase their income, improve their quality of life and affirm their cultural identity.

Lucho Castañeda: For all we live better

32

Diagnosis:
- There remains stagnant agriculture and the impoverishment of the majority of the population dependent
her and those living in the towns. In 2009 rural poverty still prevails (63%), the
chronic child malnutrition (36%) and low levels of education (6.8 years).
-






Companies in the sector are characterized by the predominance of small farms scattered and disorganized.
88% of agricultural property is less than 5 hectares. 81% of planting decisions oriented
-subsistencia by tradition - and only 4% of farmers have access to the financial system
formal. The average for major crops and livestock productivity has seen a slight
increase over the last decade, but the vast majority of production units below that
average, being very vulnerable to international competition.

-






Importantly, the recent emergence of a vigorous entrepreneurs organized in associations
by product, allowing them to capitalize on modern irrigation technologies, certified seeds,
pest and disease control, obtaining financing and achieving market access
international. But it is still a small core, concentrated mainly in the valleys of the coast.
Of the 800,000 have grown on the coast, this group comprises about 150,000 hectares and export
asparagus, grapes, paprika, artichokes, mangoes, avocados and recently ethanol.

-





Special mention new sugar complex - 99 000 have - and the medium and small
commercial producer who produces rice (407,000 ha), coffee (374,000 hectares), Cocoa (35 thousand hectares). These
producers are strategic for the territory they occupy large areas of the coast and eyebrow
jungle, employ, pay taxes and generate currency. They are also alternative to the economics of
Coke.

Specific actions:
- Establish River Basin Authority as the unit of planning and land management, as well as
coordination between producer organizations and local and regional governments.
- Support business management so that the associativity, innovation, adoption is promoted
new technologies and access to credit.
- Expand and maintain the network of roads and trails for access to markets and services
health education and population centers.
- Extend the rural telephony and Internet access to substantially improve connectivity with the country
and the world.
- Provide power to the area of ​​the villages with hydro, solar, and wind sources
organic waste (biogas).
- Substantially improve the quality and relevance of technical education with the model
SENATI organization and methodologies.
- Building a research system from every valley basin, with the best farmers and support
of universities and specialized institutes.
- Signing agreements with the best global research centers and hire qualified professionals
in the international scientific community, to put the Peru as a world power applications
its biodiversity.

Lucho Castañeda: For all we live better

33

- Improving the quality and effectiveness of local governments to carry out surveying, titling, registration and
solving border dispute and property rights.
- Implement the construction and operation of markets in towns throughout the country, and build a
virtual communications network with the new Santa Anita Wholesale Market of Lima,
to organize a Commodity Exchange to cover the entire national territory.
- Build a network of financial operators in each basin and in their respective towns,
hinged to the National Bank, Agrobanco, Commercial Banking, Municipal and Rural Banks.
- Facilitate the development and implementation of business investment projects and local infrastructure,
to ensure cost effectiveness and credibility as borrowers.
- Maintaining the technical, administrative, economic and financial autonomy of SENASA, to control and
eradicate major pests and diseases of crops and livestock.
- Implement the Forestry Law and its Regulations, the Water Law, the Agrarian Health Framework Law, Law
Seeds and the Law on Protection of Biodiversity.
- Support organizations of agricultural producers to manage clusters and production chains
the main products of their regions.
- Strengthen their partnership to better negotiation in marketing their products,
access to credit, innovate production processes more efficient technologies, launch new
investments.
3.3.7 Tourism and Handicrafts
Problem and diagnosis:
-






Tourism lacks political and regulatory guidelines that place it as part of the policy
State, which is evidenced by the minimal investment in basic infrastructure and weak and dispersed
Public structure to support it. This causes, as a destination, lacks connectivity to
main markets, and there is insecurity, and lack of tourism awareness
lack of investment promotion. All this reduces the competitiveness and efficiency in the activity
Desk.

- Tourism is a multisectoral activity of greater economic growth in the world, has a high
influence in the social field by absorbing unskilled labor training and easy work,
It is promoting entrepreneurial skills and consolidator SMEs.
- The craft retains and promotes processes and uses ancient techniques; generates intensive
family labor providing various uses of their products both utilitarian and tourism. There are
800,000 people working in family as craftsmen.
Policies and actions:
- Declare the Tourism and Craft as part of the State Policy, turning them into tools
Social Inclusion dynamics, employment generation, decentralization and fighting extreme
poverty; promoting better standards and decision making within the executive branch.
- Institutionalize respect for the tourist and greater civic culture; for which it must prioritize and establish
curriculum reform incorporating Civic Education, Tourism Awareness and respect for the

Lucho Castañeda: For all we live better

3. 4



moral values, to strengthen national identity

- Promote and generate public-private strategic alliances with unions and universities to start
in value of the resources and historical, cultural and natural attractions that are in a state of
abandonment.
- Strengthen the Peru as an air hub in South America, encouraging the
Airlines locate their operations in our territory, and that cities become
in convention and conference centers.
-




Planning and boost credit to domestic tourism: calendarizando holidays and weekends
long week ahead 12 months to motivate and enable plan holidays and
access advance purchase deals and generating specific credit lines in the industry
I Financial.

3. 4

WATER

Identification of the problem:
The economic importance of water resources is widely known. Two features allow graph
this proposition:
-




Water is one of the most important inputs for four sectors of the Peruvian economy: Agriculture,
Mining, Industry and Energy. In the case of the agricultural sector, it is noteworthy that in 2009
It accounted for 31.8% of non-traditional exports; and also is responsible for providing the
70% of the food consumed our country and gives occupation to more than 30% of the EAP.

- In poor sanitation can cost the country between 1.3 and 7.2% of GDP.
Water Resources: Compared with other countries in the region, Peru ranks first in resources
internal freshwater per capita. The most important segment of the market consumption of this resource is
agriculture (82% of the total), followed by the industrial sector (10%) and finally domestic use.

Peru
Population billed water use (%) (1)

Chile

Colombia

Mexico

58

65

56

77

1616

884

2 112

409

56,040

52,607

46,921

3846

8

eleven

50

17

Annual freshwater withdrawals agricultural use
(% Of total extraction of fresh water) (2)

82

64

46

77

Annual freshwater withdrawals Industrial Use
(% Of total extraction of fresh water) (2)

10

25

4

3

Renewable resources internal freshwater
(Trillion cubic meters) (3)
Renewable internal freshwater resources per water
capita (cubic meters) (3)
Annual freshwater withdrawals domestic use
(% Of total extraction of fresh water) (2)

Lucho Castañeda: For all we live better

35

Diagnosis:
In this context, the identification of the transverse problems becomes different sub sectors
relevant. The main problems identified are:
-







Potential conflicts between water users of the Pacific slope. These potential conflicts
due to two important features: a) the slope of the Pacific accounts for 2% of the annual volume of
water available, 80% of GDP and 65% of the population, leading to a steady increase
associated consumption to GDP growth and population; and b) there is an overlap between the delimitation
policy of the country and the definition of the geographical basin (40% of the 159 basins
are inter-river), leading to potential conflicts of ownership, in a context of
increased consumption.

- A second problem is the inefficient use of water resources. Indeed there efficiency
35% irrigation in agriculture and water loss of 42% in the drinking water.
-








A third problem is that the institutional management of water resources is still weak, as the legal framework and
(quite modern) institutional effect has not been fully implemented.
This leads to the governing bodies do not have the technical capacity and necessary political support
to solve problems and conflicts over resources. A high turnover there
in its management, undermining the institutions; and they are not properly trained to
integrated management of water resources.
In addition, the law is not met fully because decentralization has accentuated the feelings of
departmental ownership of the water and split the management of watersheds.

-










The fourth and final issue is the effects of climate change; receding snow, heavy rain,
floods, landslides, drought, frost, and with greater frequency and intensity phenomena such as El
Nino and La Nina.
In 1982/83 floods in the north and drought in the southern highlands they caused US $ 1 billion
Direct losses on property and the death of 200 people. In 1997/98 in Ica and numerous
deaths, US $ 150 million were lost in housing infrastructure (21,000 houses damaged and
collapse of the water supply and drainage), US $ 12 million in agricultural production; and US $ 38 million in
road, water and river channeling works infrastructure.
In the 2040 projections, some studies indicate intensification of aridity in the south,
flooding in the North Shore and decreased rainfall on the Atlantic side.

Proposals:
Improved cross-sectoral water management:
- It is necessary to strengthen the institutional framework for comprehensive and multisectoral management of water resources
with the implementation of the existing regulatory framework. Within this framework, the tasks are:
- Implement the National System of Water Resources Management.
- Define, according to Law 29338 and its regulations, the role of its members, such as entities
technical regulations, operators, regulators and users.
- Modify the institutional framework of the National Water Authority (ANA) for: (i) ascribe to the PCM
and (ii) include in its Board representatives of the public and private sectors.

Lucho Castañeda: For all we live better

36

Other tasks are: to implement, with institutional strength, Water Management Authorities (AAA) to
regional level, to approve the "National Policy and Strategy for Water Resources Management", as
State policy, law and finally approved by the delimitation and coding of hydrographic units
of Peru established by R.M. No. 033-2008-AG.
- The creation of the Watershed Council must be made by supreme decree, being implemented as
decentralized bodies of the National Water Authority (ANA). This requires defining their
roles, strategies, action plans, goals and funding.
It is also necessary to define the framework for the interaction of public and private sectors
in the multisectoral management of water resources at the basin level, in accordance with the Act and HR
regionalization and decentralization process.
- It is necessary first to formulate and approve the National Water Resources Plan. Therefore,
plans should establish integrated water resources management at the pilot basins, including
management plans for water quality in natural sources.
On the technical side, building the capacity of institutions responsible by incorporating
specialized professionals.
Design methodologies and gradually sincerar rates and economic compensation for use of water,
supply, distribution and maintenance of water infrastructure for efficient service
and sustainable and thus achieve the objective of ensuring and preserving the resource and its quality, preventing
pollution, untreated sewage and strongly encouraging the water treatment
waste.
To ensure the quality and quantity of water resources it shall implement monitoring systems and
information, asking in turn plans risk prevention, impact mitigation and adaptation
Climate change and extreme weather events.
- To better prepare against climate change requires more research on vulnerability,
mitigate and adapt to such changes and to develop and disseminate knowledge and skills
information on this type of research.
On the other hand, you should promote forest ecosystem management to mitigate the vulnerability
climate change and improve the capacity of carbon sequestration. Additionally, should
build small reservoirs and regulate the use of loopholes, especially in the basins affected by
deglaciation.
Finally, provide technical assistance to support agricultural diversification and irrigation technique.
3.5

CORRUPTION: ZERO TOLERANCE

GENERAL CONTEXT
-







Corruption of public officials is a significant problem in many countries and
Peru is not exempt from this. Understood as the abuse of power, in whatever level, to
benefit themselves or others. This benefit is usually economical, but can also take
other forms, such as the use of public goods to support a particular candidate
during an electoral process. Accordingly, it is a transaction between a public official and an agent
private, through which the public official obtains private agent unlawful benefit, pecuniary or
no monetary exchange for a "service" privileged public.

Lucho Castañeda: For all we live better

37

- There is a culture of permissiveness toward corruption, leading to attitudes like those seen recently
(Payments for "wrongful dismissal" eHealth officials, or channel usage state to transmit
an event of the ruling party).
- Is an endemic evil in our society that cuts across all levels of the public sector (government
central, regional and local) and many private, affecting all citizens in varying
degree.
- Affects Competitiveness substantive way, it generates a non-transparent environment for
development of productive activities.
- It also affects the distribution of wealth, in particular equal opportunities, leading to
much of the resources allocated to meet the basic needs of Peruvians being wasted
who they have less.
- The Comptroller estimates that corruption generates annual losses of 6 billion suns.
- We are at the 78th International Corruption Index (Transparency International, 2010)


or

Denmark (1 / 9.3)



or

Chile (21 / 7.2)



or

Peru (78 / 3.5)



or

Venezuela (164/2)



or

Afghanistan (176 / 1.4)

- According to the Sixth National Survey on Corruption 2010:
or


51% of Peruvians perceive corruption as the main national problem, having
grown steadily since 2003 (25%).

or


Only 18% of Peruvians think that the government is interested in combat and that Peru is a
bit corrupt country.



Only 8% of Peruvians think the government is efficient in the fight against corruption.

or

Diagnosis:
- Values:
or




While corruption is an evil that is present in many societies, the level of achievement
in ours it is simply inadmissible. Fighting it implies a cultural challenge, because our
evolution as a country where there has been disrupted a set of values ​​("to steal, but
make").

or

This situation is exacerbated by the lack of real political leadership on this issue, as many
Sometimes political leaders are the first to fall in corruption, whether by action or
by default, leaving aside the exemplary role pertaining to the members of the elite of a country.

Lucho Castañeda: For all we live better

38

or


Something similar happens with other members of the Peruvian elite, generating some examples
Suitable for society as a whole.

- Weak institutions:
or



Except for some islands of modernity, the Peruvian government has very little depth and breadth.
In other words, it has a very weak presence in various topics, some of them vital to the
survival of our society, and is absent from large areas of our territory.



A corruption is interested in maintaining this state of affairs, it is so it can thrive.

or

or



This situation generates enormous discretion in certain matters, what is
take advantage of some officials. Consequently, there is a direct relationship between the degree of
discretion and corruption.

or



The state, both at central, regional and local levels is considered a political spoils, which affects the
public career in favor of the "positions of trust" each named for its ruling
management.

or


Ineffective accountability on the part of the authorities, not for lack of rules but by the
limited social control that is exercised over them.

or


The low level of education and income of the population carries it more likely to be unaware
corruption, or to be more lenient with her.



Lack of a regulatory framework governing the management between private interests and public officials.

or

or


In short, governance is a space where raw opacity instead of
transparency.

- Anti-Corruption ineffective:
or


The Congress is seen as one of the least reliable organizations, a situation that
They are summarized in the lapse of a congressman who said to play its part "I swear by God and silver."

or



A misunderstood esprit de corps leads to many institutions to protect their
members, something that has become clear repeatedly in Congress
("Jaguar jaguar does not eat") or to allegations of certain officials confidence.



With rare exceptions, only lower-level officials are punished.

or

- Very efficient and reliable judicial system:
or



This theme is developed in a separate proposal. However, it may be noted that the main
components (national police, prosecution, judiciary and penitentiary system) require changes
nouns.

or


The judiciary is also perceived as a corrupt organization, which castrates the
possibilities to fight corruption frontally.

or


There are many reasons for this situation may be mentioned that is overcrowded and that their
internal control mechanisms do not meet fully its role.

Lucho Castañeda: For all we live better

39

Specific actions:
- Create the Central Anti-Corruption (Triple C), at which they will be granted full powers to detect,
infiltrate and capture the crime committed "in the act".
- Strengthen civic values:
or


The change cultural attitudes demand a substantial and sustained effort in education and perhaps
one element to consider is the restoration of civic education.

- Lead by example and enforce laws and regulations:
or


In addition to educational work, whose effects can be felt in a generation, it is essential that
the country's elite in a valid attitude towards corruption example.

or


That will be the attitude of the government of Solidarity, who will take the lead in combating this evil
that corrodes society.

or



The country has a huge number of laws and regulations, many of which simply do not
met. The usual attitude of the government is to issue new rules to address a problem
determined, contributing to entangle our legal system.

or


The Solidarity government will be characterized to meet and enforce the law, something as simple
It has been forgotten by other rulers.

- Public Administration:


or

Enhance e-government:









•
•
•



or

Strengthen public career at all levels:







•
•



or

Predictably-in exercising public functions.

Generalizing online procedures.
Reduce discretion.
Transparent steps, costs and times of all administrative process.

Limit the number of staff confidence in the public system.
Institutionalize good governance practices, ethics, transparency and combating corruption.

- Strengthen the anti-corruption mechanisms:
or


Greater citizen participation in the control of corruption, involving them in the National Plan
Fight against Corruption.



Establish an observatory of corruption.

or

- Strengthen mechanisms for patrimonial control of senior officials:
or


Participation SUNAT to identify cases of evasion and illicit enrichment, working
with the efforts of the Financial Intelligence Unit.

Lucho Castañeda: For all we live better

40

- Reform of the Judicial System:


or

This issue is discussed in a separate proposal, but you can forward two ideas:







•
•

3.6

Cumulative and effective penalties.
Publishing system sentences.

NATIONAL SECURITY AND DEFENCE

Security system:
-




The development of a society requires an enabling environment that allows its members to develop
fully its potential. One of the main components of that atmosphere is the Security,
in essence it is a feeling that concerns both the vital interests of society politically
organized, as perceived threats by individuals and organizations that form.

-




The vital interests may be permanent, such as independence, sovereignty and integrity
territorial, but also other issues can purchase that category given the importance that
the country decides to give certain objectives, as was the defense of our way of organization
social policy and the threat of subversion.

-




The threats are of a wide range. Those concerning the vital interests have traditionally been
referred to other states, and while history shows that they can not be fully discarded,
Today those interests are increasingly threatened by non-state organizations, with
perhaps the most important those related to drug trafficking, subversion and organized crime.

-




To achieve an adequate level of security there is a group of organisms that every society
created and entrusted its management to the State, including the Foreign Ministry, the National Intelligence Directorate
and the Armed Forces. His articulation is accomplished through delSistema Security and Defence
National.

Identification of the problem:
- The Security and National Defense should be able to ensure the prevalence of
vital national interests.
- The country's deterrent capability is reduced.
- There is a clear military imbalance in the region.
- It has been awarded a military enclave in a foreign country, which can cause serious future problems.
- We are not able to meet international security commitments.
- We are not able to control vast areas of our territory.
- The National Defense has been neglected significantly.
- The remuneration system of the armed forces and civilian personnel of the sector has remained relegated.
- The pension system is in critical situation (Military and Police Pension Fund, Cédula Viva).

Lucho Castañeda: For all we live better

41

Diagnosis:
- The Council of National Security and Defense fails to define the Doctrine of National Security or
update the National Security Policy, in consequence, the Foreign Policy and Defence Policy
the effort of other elements that contribute to security are uncoordinated.
- The investment in the components of the national security is unbalanced and sporadic cases
Media Defense.
- The National Defence requires a deep reform, overcoming negative perceptions of the relationship
civil-military and focus on the essential task to be fulfilled.
- The Armed Forces must achieve a reasonable deterrent level, to ensure its ability to meet
its primary function fully.
- Low citizen control on security issues.
- Shortage of experts on national security and defense and to form the technical staff
required for the management of that system.
Proposals:
- Assume full address Security System and National Defense.
- Adopt the National Security Policy.
- To approve the National Defense Policy.
- Repower defense sector with a time horizon and a funding mechanism that allows
to carry out this process in an orderly manner.
- Improve sector wages, so as to enable the capture of quality human resources and
ensure retention in the service of its most qualified cadres.
- Ensuring fair pensions, keeping alive ballot.
- Ensuring a decent quality of life to members of the armed forces, particularly in aspects of
and health personnel who have become disabled in the line of duty.
- Strengthen mechanisms for citizen oversight of the System of National Security and Defense.
- Foster the training of cadres working in the field of Security and Defence.

Lucho Castañeda: For all we live better

42

3.6.1 THE THREAT OF DRUG TRAFFICKING
GENERAL CONTEXT
-







The drug is primarily an illegal economic activity; but, after all, cheap. To the
As a legal industry operates on a rationality based on profitability. Try to
to maximize benefits while minimizing risks. Opera with business logic. It is a transnational with
Headquarters (poster) and branches (signatures). One of these, unfortunately, located in our country. his
organization has shareholders (owners); Tables executives (managers); and workers (labor
work). Given the darkness that still prevails in the knowledge of drug trafficking is only visible
third level.

- We are on track to be, or already are, the first producer of cocaine (Peru 59,900 ha and growing -
Colombia 68,000 decrease to 2009; 302 TM and growing Peru - Colombia 450 TM and decreasing the
2008).
- There is also evidence of opium poppy, used to produce opium, which although they are still
small are growing.
- Much of the production is destined to supply cocaine to consumer countries, but
It has also increased domestic consumption of cocaine and other drugs.
- The drug washes about 1,000 million dollars through our economy, and even though their
impact has decreased by the growth of the same, no longer a factor of significant distortion.
- Wields enormous power of corruption, allowing it to penetrate all levels of society and
state.
- It has deforested more than 2.5 million hectares of forest.
- Overturns values, giving wrong models for youth.
- Contributes to increased crime, both by the growing presence of criminal organizations
contesting traffic control scale, and the increase of urban crime
linked to the micro-marketing.
- Contributes to Social Violence to encourage coca producers to the stubborn defense of what
considered one of the few livelihoods.
- Fuels terrorism, because both have a common enemy to the state and its agencies, finding it
the remaining functional subversive act as security for its activities.
- Threatens our borders and sovereignty, since the drug acts outside these concepts,
which in turn is facilitated by the low or, in many cases, no control of all areas of the territory
national.
- The big shots do not fall.

Lucho Castañeda: For all we live better

43

Diagnosis:
-




The government has been reluctant to recognize the level of threat that drug trafficking poses to the
security of the country, considering it is an issue that must be addressed mainly by countries
consumers, without taking into account the enormous damage caused to our social order. In
Accordingly:



or

Grants a limited allocation of resources to fight drug trafficking.

or


The fight against drugs is carried out essentially with foreign cooperation, oriented to
meet strategic objectives of donors.



In large part, this strategy focuses on crop substitution, fueling social violence.

or

- DEVIDA agency responsible for designing and conducting the National Strategy for Combating Drugs,
It does not have the importance that it requires, and leading the fight against drug trafficking.
- The real traffickers, those who run the drug business are part of organizations
international, so fight them requires an international effort.
- There are difficulties in identifying major traffickers, although much of what remains in the
country is inserted into the formal economy. It contributes to the following:


or

or


The Financial Intelligence Unit (FIU) has no access to banking information.
SUNAT, which does have access to bank information, does not have a unit that analyzes the
illicit enrichment, nor properly coordinated efforts with the FIU.

Specific actions:
- Leading the struggle against drug trafficking.
or



The level of threat that drug trafficking Peruvian society behaves to demand that the
President assume the proper role and effectively lead the fight
against this scourge.

- Strengthen and give DEVIDA enforceable in the fight against drugs, assigning effective control
of the means required for this purpose.
- Concentrate efforts on traffickers.
or


The resources will always be scarce, so you have to use them in the most efficient way against
the center of gravity of the threat, that is, against those who handle the traffic.

or



This implies an active international coordination, enhancing our capabilities in intelligence,
strategic and operational, as well as the necessary means to control effectively not only
the country, but also air and sea space itself and surrounding.

- Create or strengthen anti-money laundering system (PNP, SBS, SUNAT, prosecution and PJ).


or

Establish mechanisms for cooperation between the FIU and the SUNAT.

Lucho Castañeda: For all we live better

44

- Use all the security mechanisms of the country, each in its field of competence and
coordinated manner.
or




It sterile debate which institution is in charge of the fight against drug trafficking as a threat
It is of such magnitude that it should be involved in all that contribute to control, including
it to the Foreign Ministry, the Armed Forces, the National Police, the National
Intelligence, SUNAT, FIU, etc.

3.6.2 TERRORISM
GENERAL CONTEXT
- Increasingly linked to drug trafficking, maintaining pockets of armed resistance in the Huallaga and the
VRAE, but also present in other parts of the country.


or

or


In the Huallaga the situation seems to be more controlled.
In the VRAE a tougher resistance remains, telling the rebels to May 1
military capability.

- The terrorist attacks have increased markedly from 2000 to 2009, from 187-901.
- The lethality of terrorist acts has increased markedly over the same period, having
caused a total of 237 victims, of which 114 are from the police.
-




The fight against subversive remnants not employ appropriate means to be more efficient, as
own satellite information, or a sufficient number of transport helicopters and attack only
To give some examples, which means that, in certain circumstances, the police did not
using all its capabilities.

- Subversion has increased its work of political propaganda in several universities and other areas
from the country.
Diagnosis:
-





There has been a slow punishable political reaction to confront the armed groups, especially
in the VRAE; and when it finally occurred it has not followed a comprehensive strategy, as
the action of the police has not been accompanied by a substantial presence of other
state components that contribute to improving the situation of the inhabitants of the areas where the
terrorism is acting.

- System Security and Defence disjointed and ineffective limits the ability to liquidate the
problem.


or

The lack of own satellite difficult territorial control.

or


The limited number of helicopters, in addition to the age of many of them have,
They make it difficult for law enforcement to have a significant operational advantage.

or


The necessary coordination between the Armed Forces and the National Police is not always smooth
it should be.

Lucho Castañeda: For all we live better

4. 5

- The intelligence system has not yet reached optimum levels.
or





The misuse of the SIN by the Fujimori regime led to his virtual dismantling, where they went
both bad and good elements. This generated a profound weakness in that vital service
It is making strategic decisions, which was intensified in later years by a lack of
policy defined in this category. In recent years this has been amended, but the reconstitution
their analysis capabilities takes time, a process which is still immersed.

Specific actions:
- Leading the fight against subversive remaining.
or


The Presidency of the Republic will take front and unequivocally the struggle against this threat
Peruvian society.

- Comprehensive policies persist in areas where, for investing in development in an environment
insurance.
or



Strengthen the Commissioner for Peace and Development of Ayacucho, giving the leadership of the struggle
against terrorism in that area, which means not only political control of the police,
but essentially that of other public organizations.

or



Establish a Commissioner for Peace and Development in the Huallaga, giving leadership
combating terrorism in that area, which means not only political control of the security forces
order, but primarily that of other public organizations.

- Strengthening the components of the System of National Security and Defense so they can meet
its work fully. This theme is developed in the proposed National Security and Safety
Citizen.
3.7 FOREIGN POLICY
GENERAL CONTEXT
- The Peruvians abroad are far from Peru, not only by the distance that separates us from them but
also for the neglect with which they are treated.
- The Andean Community of Nations is weakened and facing, having lost importance
commercial and political
- The maritime delimitation with Chile is a subject to which we must pay special attention.
Diagnosis:
-




There are about three million Peruvians Abroad, remitting more than 2,500 million
dollars a year. They are threatened by the global economic crisis, and are harassed
by some States, such as the case of the Arizona law that is to be replicated in other countries
criminalize immigration.

-




Peru is the headquarters of the Andean Community of Nations and the Andean Parliament is elected by suffrage
Live, this is an important relationship with Bolivia, Ecuador and Colombia (neighboring countries) Forum.
Chile and Venezuela maintain expectations. Promote rapprochement and development issues of interest
mutual, especially commercial.

Lucho Castañeda: For all we live better

46

- The Peruvian foreign policy should continue based on 32 state policies contained in the
National Agreement.
- Peru has managed to enter the world with a sustained and permanent foreign policy through
of successive governments, protecting our sovereignty and prioritizing the capture of markets for
care for the poor.
Specific actions:
- Propose the necessary legislative changes to give representation to Peruvians
outside, so that their interests can be defended, promoting efficient and dignified care
our compatriots in the world.
- Foster a simplified system of access to social security for Peruvians abroad, in which
Please will sign bilateral agreements on social security (health and pension) with more countries.
- Strengthen our diplomatic service, based on the increasing rates of investment and export,
prioritizing our integration with Brazil; and to strengthen our trade relationship with countries
brothers of Bolivia, Colombia, Chile and Ecuador in the framework of the various bilateral agreements.
- Maintain a firm stand in defense of our national interests before the International Court
of Justice in The Hague in defense of sovereign sea of ​​Peru. Ratify commissioners and diplomats
integrating legal team.
- Develop a policy against crime in cooperation with all countries of the world,
fighting organized crime, drug trafficking, terrorism, human trafficking, child exploitation
and every scourge that violates human rights.

Lucho Castañeda: For all we live better

47

Solidarity
National
