MANIFESTO-Hood + CMY CM MY CY Separadores.pdf CMY K 1 5/11/13 7:51 PM MANIFESTO-Hood + CMY CM MY CY Separadores.pdf CMY K 2 5/11/13 7:51 PM MANIFESTO-Hood + Separadores.pdf CMY CM CY CMY K 3 05/11/13 Pay what you should clean up the finances Portugal needs a cultural and behavioral reform in the management of public funds. For it is accurate urgent and medium and long term measures; exemplary measures and basic measures; term measures and structural measures. We think that only a combined action of one or the other can be achieved a solid, coherent and understandable result for the Portuguese. We hope that the measures have such an impact on your shed material and have the behavioral culture of public decision-makers. Only in this way it will be possible to build a Portugal with a future for generations to come, where the actualnão generation will be accused of destroying the dreams of the unborn. In 2004 public debt was around € 80,000 million in 2010 already reached the 160,000 million euros. In 2011 will be close to EUR 170,000 million. 1. Limit the debt naConstituição State The issue of debt assumed such proportions that made inevitable the third request for foreign aid to Portugal in thirty years. Today's debts are tomorrow's taxes. The Portuguese government has to amend seriously. The precise extent to which the debt issue takes on an intergenerational basis, it is clear that today takes on a constitutional nature. Therefore, the CDS will request the opening of a constitutional amendment (foiled the last parliament). Should be limited and focused, the establishment of a constitutional limit on government debt should be on the agenda. The CDS will have a constructive approach in this review in order, not an ideological conflict but effective review which satisfies the necessary consensus. 2. Public Debt: halt the worsening, treat reduction is necessary to make it very clear that public debt is not just an accounting or abstract number. It is, however, a good practical reality. It is money that the Portuguese government borrowed from creditors. It is money that should Portugal. Therefore, we must say very clearly that Portugal should fulfill its commitments. It is not easy but it is essential. It is an objective of short or even medium term, but can not help but be a purpose. Those who bet on the "do not pay" what we are irresponsible: what became inevitable foreign aid to Portugal was the risk of insolvency and the state of disruption in the financial system. The idea of ​​"no pay" would mean a tragic risk for Portugal, with possible expulsion from the euro, abysmal drop in household income and rising, especially astronomical, the cost of debt. It should be added that in this respect, as well as seek ways to solve the problem, we have yet to begin, and already now, not worse. In other words, we must immediately take action lest we further endividemos. 3. Position clear: suspend the TGV CDS-PP defends the suspension of the TGV. The problems Portugal is facing make it absolutely incomprehensible to continue with this work which will irreversibly at this stage to increase our debt and restrict even more available credit. Enough irresponsibility of those who built SCUT and its renegotiations. We hope that the Court refuse a visa to the Poceirão- Caia contract. Timely CDS tried to prevent the signing of this contract. But we must take advantage of the fact that the work on the ground be at the beginning, to suspend, cautioning the most of the public interest. 4. Defer New Airport The work of the New Lisbon Airport is connected to the TGV. The Poceirão- Caia may be inevitable Poceirão-Lisbon section, the new entry in Lisbon and the connection to the (new) airport. Now, as we always said and according to its own memorandum of the international mission, you can not make a new airport with public funds. Again, it must be realism: it is difficult to conceive that there are economic conditions to do the work, the next government should review its postponement, make the most of the sums already spent on modernization of Portela and study the feasibility of Portela model +1. 5. To conclude the evaluation of existing, no new PPP Public-private partnerships have been used in recent years obviously and disastrously as a way to mask future state commitments. So it is vital to make a reassessment of all PPPs and very clearly prohibit the conclusion of new PPP as this assessment is complete. It is necessary to take into account three fundamental criteria. The first is to distinguish between PPP already awarded and PPP that are not awarded. The state's room for maneuver here is almost total. The second is the distinction between PPPs that are nearing completion, or late stage, and those that are still at the beginning. This is because compared to the latter Portugal has arguably greater freedom to correct the mistakes that were made. The third criterion is the inclusion in the evaluation of forms of regional and local partnerships that have proliferated in recent years and have to earn a calculation of future costs, and a rather more rigorous legal framework. 6. Renegotiate the PPP with new legal remedies to defend the public interest, assuming that Portugal is in a state of financial emergency, CDS maintains that have to be refocused forms of renegotiation of existing PPP. We will give special attention to the PPP contractual framework which is qualified as harmful to the public interest from the point of view of its economic-financial consequences and violate the basic principle of good management of public resources. We know that this renegotiation has to be made of tripartite manner - including the state (or other contracting authorities), contractors and funders. But some innovation is needed in this field, using either the instruments known renegotiation, such as increasing the term of the concessions or other legal instruments based on abnormal and unforeseeable change of circumstances has occurred. Do not be concerned the violation of basic guarantees; however, we depart in a spirit of national salvation, trying to commit all parties in reducing and mitigating the serious damage caused by PPP. 7. Before the visa Court of Auditors, there is execution or payment of PPP The role of the Court of Auditors is essential in these contracts. It is therefore clear that the fact that they take effect and begin to be implemented before the prior approval of this entity generates for the state Portuguese risks and responsibilities that have to be avoided in the future. Therefore, the CDS judged to be legally enshrined the impossibility of contracts produce any effect before this visa, making it impossible for the state has to pay compensation if the Court decides not to pursue a contract. It should also be made compulsory submission to the Court, not only contracts but also of the minutes. On the other hand, that provision also would strengthen the role of the Court of Auditors in the monitoring of PPP. 8. Transparency in PPP contracts is not acceptable that Portugal may find themselves committed to charges which are not only not approved by Parliament, as have, in practice, the possibility of public scrutiny. The CDS supports the consecration of a transparency regime of PPP contracts, stipulating that Parliament has access to the tendering documents for launching PPP, with respect for the principles of trade secrets, as well as contracts and attachments, thus allowing policy enforcement the charges made by the Portuguese State (including the business sector of the State). It is especially important to know the risk sharing between public and private provided for in these contracts. 9. The end of the "golden shares" and European reciprocity The weight of the state in the Portuguese economy continues to be excessive, either as an employer, as a consumer of goods and services, as adjudicator of public works, is also a shareholder of companies that compete directly with private operators. Thus, the CDS supports the definition at the beginning of the legislature of a disposal plan of state holdings by direct or through Parpública. With regard to formalization provided for in the agreed program for Portugal, CDS meets and fulfills the commitments of Portugal. It should be noted that, in terms of positions to be taken in the Community framework in matters of "golden share", it is important to defend your term occurs in circumstances of equality and reciprocity in the various Union countries. 10. Reforming the mission of CGD and restructure the RTP Do disposals plan of state holdings, CDS excludes CGD. The Portuguese economy needs a public bank and the mission of the CGD must be reformed: we want the CGD is the development bank of the economy, specialized in supporting SMEs. Sell ​​stakes in CGD mean, apart from everything else, at this point, and lose value, with high probability, sell to national capitals. For shares in called Caixa Group - for example, in the insurance sector - the CDS has a favorable position. With regard to RTP, there are two borders that the CDS sets. On the one hand it is not possible for a public company, does not ensure efficient management of resources that are paid by taxpayers. It requires an absolutely strict management, the pursuit of a better public service to justify the contribution that has been made since the financial restructuring agreement. Furthermore, the national interest obligations, in particular those to do with the defense of the Portuguese language and cultural foreign policy of Portugal, advise the maintenance of the public channel. The work done between 2002 and 2005 proves that the RTP can catch profligacy, cut their budgets and have professional management. It is our model, since the current level of capital transfers is not bearable. The payment of salaries many times the president, maintaining a number of directors and a disproportionate management structure, are some examples of cuts that can be performed, without affecting the quality of public services and reducing the bill for the taxpayer . 11. To ensure competition in the privatization of the electricity sector The CDS has always had a critical position on the privatization of natural monopolies, and an even more critical position on the "de facto monopoly", guaranteed by the state, between EDP and REN. The foreign aid according to the EC, the ECB and the IMF also provides for the privatization of REN. The CDS, in his statement, put the matter between those who need a better solution within the framework of the monitoring system of the agreement. The CDS wants to avoid a transfer to the private sector a non-competitive situation existing in the public sphere, highly damaging to the economy, businesses and consumers. The CDS will be extremely demanding on the definition of REN's privatization tender documents. With support in the relevant European legislation, we think it should be clear that societies (such as EDP) whose corporate purpose is the production, distribution or supply of electricity - or entities and shareholders with controlling influence these - may not, directly or indirectly, have controlling interests in REN. In addition, define the next chapter of the manifesto, a model for the energy sector which contradicts the true "public-private monopoly" established in the sector, with the complacency of regulators. In the case of TAP, CDS will strive to achieve that in the specifications, be established conditions ensuring the maintenance of a platform in Lisbon and their installed capacities that protect the development potential of Portugal as a global platform in this area and coverage of the entire national territory - mainland and islands - is assured. 12. Why public works in the Ministry of Finance The next government must give very clear signals expenditure restraint and debt. The Ministry of Finance shall, in particular, adding a substantial part of the current skills Ministry of Public Works, in accordance with the governance model presented in the CDS Congress. You can not simultaneously call for debt relief and want to carry out large-scale projects will be reflected in the inevitable increase in debt. Without, at this time, a Ministry of Public Works and subordinate that is essential in this matter to the Minister of Finance is saying clearly that in the near future should only be public works of medium and small size, proximity, and no project too ambitious and credit consumers for the times we live in. They remain, of course, the Ministry of Environment, cities and Spatial Planning, the relative competencies, for example, to transport and urban mobility. 13. small public investment The state has to counter the tendency to focus on major public works and enjoy the opportunity of redeployment of EU funds the HST and the new Lisbon airport to other projects. Even the European Commission has this opportunity. These investments have to be chosen based on their ability to promote economic growth and territorial cohesion. 14. expense reduction: social ethics to fiscal equity and force of example public expenditure today is debt tomorrow. All components of our public spending must be the subject of reduction effort, particularly from the large rigid expenditure aggregates to the small expenses that judges no one put a problem. In fact, there is a tendency to think that a summation of small cuts will not solve any problems. However, it is certainly not completely solve our problem of runaway public finances, it is also true that aid and, above all, introduces an undeniable logic of saving and rationalization of public resources. The CDS has measures to reduce public spending in the medium and long term, that will alter surely the paradigm of how to manage public resources, thus creating a culture of rigor and essential savings to the sustainability of public finances of any developed country. We think that only a combined effect of short and long-term measures can be achieved a solid result, consistent and understandable by the Portuguese. Above all, this will also be a cultural and behavioral reform in the management of public affairs, bearing in mind that there is - always and austerity of time - a social ethics (protection of disadvantaged), a tax ethics (fair distribution of sacrifices) and an ethic of example (the state with himself). 15. Public Institutes, Foundations, Agencies and State Task Forces: 90 days to identify those that are unnecessary is imperative impose early in the next legislative term, a period of 90 days for each Minister extinctions present a plan or reductions in Public Institutes, Foundations, Agencies, Task Forces and other government entities under his tutelage, ie the kind of organizations that have proliferated unsustainably. This Plan will be guided by three criteria: assessment of actual need; possible duplication of functions with other public services; performance of direct service to the public tasks. This profound restructuring, the responsibility of each Minister in the national effort spending reduction is critical to define the measures appropriate to the reality of each ministry and to ensure that they are implemented, why should set annual goals for Ministry. 16. 90 days to define what are the unnecessary public companies Similarly, we argue that, in the universe of state-owned enterprises, which grew abnormally in recent years, we need to change their lives. The decision on termination, privatization or reduction of public companies must comply with a set of common sense criteria: the insolvency of the company, doubling its service compared to other state bodies, the type of services to the public and the imperative State presence in the sector concerned. The state-owned enterprises must be managed more efficiently and more rigorously than has happened so far. We therefore propose the mandatory contracting objectives and the award of public service contracts between the State and public undertakings. Among the targets should include very specific and measurable indicators to improve the company's performance, as well as the reduction of its debt. 17. entities and public enterprises: rules to prevent runaway As long as the assessment of entities and public enterprises to extinguish, reduce, privatize or restructure should be forbidden to create new entities or businesses. This principle is, in fact, partially contained in the external assistance agreement made by the Portuguese State. At the end of evaluation, should be laid down demanding, scheduled and objective legal rules that hinder the creation of new entities or companies, other than those resulting from restructuring. The ban on the creation of new entities or companies should be through appropriate political and legal solution, extended to regional and local government. 18. A multi-annual program terminations by mutual agreement the State With regard to matters of human resources Public Administration, the CDS was the first to defend, in 2009 a program termination by mutual agreement in Public Administration. We keep as increasingly present our idea. The mutual agreement presupposes an understanding between the state and the employee. It is here to give flexibility to the system, reconciling the need to resize the administration with the expectations and the qualities of its employees. This program is more advantageous than the new mechanical formulation of rules of entry and exit of workers. In fact, these rules may create operational disruptions in key sectors (eg .: a shortage of nurses or police officers is not the same as administrative assistants). The program should be extended to regional and local administrations. One of the solutions to their financing implies, as we have always said, a small change in the legal and constitutional provisions on the revenues from privatization, if a portion of that revenue used to finance compensation, will reduce spending and thus reduce debt. 19. Reform of the Administrative Map of Portugal needs to reform its administrative map, totally outdated in the face of our reality. We have in this regard a purely economic view, but stand before the people to the service, the principle of optimization of the investment, the effective exercise of the powers and fighting waste. This reform must allow efficiency and critical mass gains, you need not jeopardize local identity, taking still respect two distinct realities, the urban and rural areas. We defend the maintenance of the municipalities as territorial unit, but we are openly available to the aggregation of municipalities that may be governed by a single City Council, a single municipal executive and a single municipal Assembly. The same logic should apply to parishes: not worth entering a "turf war", the parish can continue to exist as a territory and identity, what is needed is to add Parish Councils. Several parishes can be grouped into a single Board and Parish Assembly, and in this particular take on special attention to rural reality, geographical distances, equipment or existing transport networks. The reform of the municipalities should be sought a consensus - based on population criteria, size, socio-cultural reality, road infrastructure, transport or education, among others, and ensure the hearing of the population. Such a reform would give scale and effective powers to the new authorities and simultaneously liberate heritage and save costs for redundancies. We emphasize that this reform must not jeopardize the existing rules for the limitation of mandates may not changes serve as an excuse for Mayors and Councils who had reached the limits of their mandates may re-apply. With regard to the Azores and Madeira, reaffirming its geostrategic importance, we will ensure compliance with the principles of territorial continuity and national solidarity, there are some organizational aspects of the political power that also deserve to be improved. In a moment of common effort, we must demand all the same cohesion and responsibility. 20. Civil Governments In a new political-administrative map, Civil Governments can be extinguished and should be carefully redistributed their skills. This reform should be part of the constitutional review that focused CDS defend. 21. Health and Education: The principle of maximum utilization of installed capacities In the sectors of education and health, we need to clearly defend the investment in young people and in patients, compared to what is wasted or less rational management of resources. The State chose, almost always, to build new work from the ground up with equipment and new facilities. It not always cautioned, from a budgetary point of view, the soaring maintenance costs. To fulfill this investment plan in new construction, the state wasted, and even harassed, the possibility of a contractual, either with the social sector, either with the private sector, schools or health facilities already exist, with recognized quality service, proximity of the poorest people and cost per person - student or ill - that's less than or equal to the state. What happened with the association contracts (in Education) and what happened to the postponement of contracting with the social health sector was a management and ideological bias error. It is a mistake to build a clean school, if there is a good school on the ground, under contract with the state. It is a waste to have installed capacity for consultations and surgery, and desaproveitá them, spending more. The CDS bet on efficient spending, and therefore support the contracting in education and health through clear and stable rules. 22. Measures for SNS with more humanity and less waste CDS is aware of the huge challenge of ensuring the sustainability of a universal and quality health system. Our choices will always have a preferential option for the most vulnerable and safeguard justice in access to health. There are ways to manage better and more humanely the system, that depend most Portuguese. We must therefore ensure that primary health care guarantee assistance 24 hours a day to small incidents, thus releasing the emergency services for situations that justify it; ensure a policy of planned and efficient human resources, based on reward individual performance or team, focusing on results; assign the ACSS (Health System Central Administration) responsible for unifying the information related to all institutions providing care and health services, making it to the entity responsible for verification, standardization and certification systems and the necessary technologies; promote the effective functioning of central purchasing; assign to the General Health Directorate responsibility for setting quality standards and best practices, in conjunction with the professional Order concerned; instituting mechanisms of clinical and economic evaluation of all health technologies and medications, which allow the adoption only those with a proven positive cost-benefit ratio; establish new management practices, discouraging waste and unnecessary costs; establish standards (benchmarks) to effectively and efficiently; ensure efficient linkage between high management teams and continuous care; investing in care in outpatient settings; contractually with delivery units - and these results with the teams -in function, financing productivity, as opposed to the payment of extra production; creating effective accountability mechanisms for the management; while taking necessary measures to protect personal data and professional secrecy, the computer system should be extended and improved so as to allow the movement of clinical information electronically; raise awareness of the fact that the SNS tends to be free at the point of use, but it has obviously very high public costs; make available to each user, a document with a detailed breakdown of the actual cost for the state - and therefore the taxpayer - of health services provided to it. All these measures deliver better health to the Portuguese and correct waste and inefficiencies. It is possible and the CDS will take them out. 23. Prescription by DCI and dose, of course! The CDS know that the containment measures in health must focus on waste. So we want to generalize the prescription by DCI, except where there are technical justifications for not doing so, as proposed in Parliament but PS and PSD refused. This reform much remains delayed is increasingly essential and will allow getting big savings in the cost that the state supports with medicines without will lead to more burdens on citizens. In this regard, yet it must be concluded urgently electronic prescription, for all sectors and create a reasonable consumer culture, balanced and prudent health care, particularly MCDT and medicines, and to generalize the prescribing and dispensing medications in single dose ( within blister) in community pharmacies for acute episodes. It is not acceptable to continue to be wasted every day numerous medications that patients need not actually paid but with the effort from the State and citizens. 24. Principle that has to be better work and pay taxes than not want to work and live on benefits (cross social benefits) Social benefits are essential to meet the social situations of very varied nature. If it were not for social transfers, poverty rates would be even higher than they are today. However all social benefits behave moral hazard - that your allocation is more attractive than the addition, the return to the labor market or the acquisition of own income. Currently, the benefits are widely dispersed. They can be assigned by Social Security, the school social, local authorities, the regional bodies or social institutions in contracting with the state. It is important to undertake the cross, not only to ensure a capable supervision, but to ensure a very important principle in societies with social mobility. That benefit recipients do not receive more from the state than they would if auferissem working income. We can not treat the same manner situations are different. Social groups highly exposed to exclusion such as the elderly, children or disabled citizens who have greater difficulty in obtaining own income are now often hit by blind cuts in social benefits, which sets up an injustice from a social point of view. But there are beneficiaries of other benefits that have skills and ability to be in the labor market and are not getting today have net incomes higher than those earned by the average of private sector workers, because often do not pay taxes and are in the informal economy . And it destroys the value of work, merit, effort as "engine" of our society. We propose therefore to proceed to the intersection of all the benefits, given the diversity of social situations, and introduce a ceiling, admitting objective exceptions. 25. Grant Disease - Fighting fraudulent low We want, in the social dialogue, find ways to ensure more effective supervision and combating fraudulent casualties, avoiding situations where there is moral hazard grant of the benefit because it is economically more rewarding to be lower than provide effective work. In that same seat is important to reach a compromise, aiming the convergence of public and private schemes of sickness benefit. 26. Heritage State The State must manage their assets better. The goal is a more efficient management and not the artificial socket revenues (through the sale of real estate for public companies, namely Estamo) which are offset the increase in income in subsequent years. These incomes which, incidentally, the state can hardly afford, particularly taking into account the large increase in expenditure weight with buildings lease in state consumption. The CDS supports the creation of a system that encourages each Ministry to vacate space and the allocation of revenues to the occupied buildings. The unoccupied property will then be monetized through sales or leases the market, allowing a real increase in revenues rather than a purely accounting operation. All these operations have to be done with the utmost transparency and impartiality. Its sole purpose is to avoid waste, so it is not acceptable that later come to realize that in reality they eventually mean more expense. 27. Reducing direct agreement also reduces the expense procurement In the watchwords must be transparency, fairness and economic rationality. In the case of direct award, CDS considers that it should be reduced the number of cases where the use of this form of contract is possible (in 2010, there were 73,289 direct agreement, which accounted for 92 \% of contracts and 56 \% of the amount total). Also have to be more transparency in the rationale for the choice of this procedure and the contractor. It not only know what the state hired, and how, but also why he chose the direct agreement and certain company over others. This information must therefore also be consulted on the website of public procurement. 28. Accuracy in "outsourcing" In recent years, became widespread, ministry to ministry, the use of external services - aka outsourcing - which reaches values ​​already very high, especially with regard to financial and legal consulting. Voluntarily or not, this intensive use of outsourcing leads to a triple motivation high public administration. Many Directors-General failed to take an active role in the technical preparation of proposals and legislation; there is a tendency for ministerial offices replace this role of DGs; and often the ministerial offices end up resorting to consultants or external offices. This spiral is vicious, inefficient, expensive and non-transparent. The CDS will propose a substantial reduction of this outsourcing, assuming not only a budget ceiling, as extending this limit to the State Enterprise Sector. Our rule is that this feature must be objectively justified by each government of the holder, including this demonstration the evidence that the own resources of the administration can not accomplish the task. 29. Simplify the governing structures in the field of the necessary reform of public administration, CDS also advocates a reduction in managerial positions and non-essential structures, especially in the fields of education, health and social security. Changes to do should not cause operational disruptions. This reduction has to be particularly vehement in members of the public company boards. 30. The example from above: limit salaries of managers, reset the state fleet There is no austerity program to be understood if the State does not suit. Already we list several macro steps in that direction. But there are small steps that demonstrate a commitment to austerity, and, state. The first example involves the rigorous review of the remuneration scheme for public officials, according to the following principles: the imposition of a ceiling to the fixed component of the remuneration; compulsory execution of management contracts with all managers imposing very specific objectives for its mandate; finish with perfectly disproportionate damages, prohibiting different compensation schemes established by law; prohibit the payment of variable remuneration / bonuses without objective goals for improving the company's results are met; ending the possibility of remuneration accumulations. The second example has to do with the establishment of offices. If the government is smaller, the offices will also have to be. In addition to comply with the limits prescribed by law, shall, in addition, that part of the cabinet must be recruited from level civil servants. Finally, another example of common sense is maximizing the common use of the vehicles, and avoid personal use. 31. Only if reform the state with independence from the patronage CDS-PP knows that one of the fundamental problems in the management of public affairs is its appropriation by partisan constituencies. The state can not continue to be "colonized" and it is urgent to establish a merit and transparency culture. The "boyismo" not over, however, with the definition of the positions subject to competition. The next government must submit to the test of independence for appointment, it is today an urgent claim of citizenship. The principle is that no one can not be harmed by being a member of a party, serious is to have party card dismiss or replace the curriculum and merit. The CDS takes very seriously this issue. We will work for a review of the list of political positions of trust; and propose a form of transparency on the curriculum and experience of the nominees for positions in direct and indirect state administration; chairmen of public companies should go to the respective committee in Parliament, a specific hearing on their skills and mission. 32. Zero Base Budget The recent introduction into law the obligation of each legislature to make a zero-based budget, justifying the reason and goodness of each money the state plans to spend, it is important and, although only in installments, matches CDS proposed to. It is no longer acceptable to continue an "incremental" logic in preparing the Budget for each service, where only justify the resources that increase, assuming the costs of each immovable last year. It is essential that at least once every term, every service, every ministry, every Institute and department explain what spends, spends and how it spends. 33. strong reduction of state intermediate consumption The State of intermediate consumption, not including salaries, pensions or interest have been experiencing unjustified rises; even with austerity, their reductions are scarce. This trend has to be reversed vigorously. In the discussion of the State Budget for 2011 CDS proposed very specific spending cuts in purchases of goods and services in items such as, communications, advertising, events and advisory services. We need the next government organize these more systematically cuts, imposing quantified reduction targets through each Minister. 34. Equity fiscal austerity In addressing the spending reduction obligations, it would not be serious to do it without admitting or claim greater tax fairness in the distribution of sacrifices. The CDS, which has a strong tradition of defending the taxpayer and tax moderation, that does not leave, you know that this exceptional moment that Portugal is living, defending the taxpayer is also able to defend that is not always the same - those who can not evade taxes - to pay the bill; and that there are ways to increase the revenue they make avoidable increases the tax burden. In general, as we have said always, there must be a concept and a social awareness of tax equity. It is what we will cover in this chapter, allowing for the economic chapter of the competitive stimulus measures and support to the family. 35. Ensure effective punishment of tax evasion One of the priorities of the next government should be to establish and urgent adoption of a National Plan to Combat Fraud and Evasion, with the initial duration of three years, including the following measures: ) Punishment most severe of tax crimes, with aggravation of penalty bands of the most serious tax crimes, including crimes of tax fraud, conspiracy and qualified fraud, in order to enhance the applicability of the penalty of imprisonment in these crimes; b) Department of Manufacturing Research Services Fraud and Special Actions (DSIFAE) into a genuine fiscal anti-fraud unit, reinforcing the skills, the human resources - 150 specialists dedicated to the research, four times more than the current inspectors - and the technical means necessary for their effective functioning and its effective cooperation with the Judicial Police and the Public Ministry; c) Optimization and expansion of the intersection of information with tax authorities in other countries, notably through the use of "Agreements for Exchange of Information on Tax Matters" and "Mutual Administrative Assistance in Tax Protocols Information Sharing Issues"; d) Reform of the criminal courts with jurisdiction over tax offenses, so that criminal cases with severe and elevated nature, in the fiscal area, to be tried quickly. 36. Strengthen human and legal means to combat fraud and evasion In this regard, we propose: strengthening employees dedicated exclusively to tax inspection, to ascend at least 30 \% of the total number of employees of the General Directorate Taxes, doubling the number of current tax inspectors; the improvement of integrated computer systems for sharing and cross-check tax, especially SAFT PT, in order to combat more efficiently tax evasion, including in tax based on income and especially in subjects such as Prices Transfer; the easing of the procedures necessary for the application of the General Anti-Abuse clause and specific anti-abuse clauses, in order to make more efficient the fight against Abusive Tax Planning. 37. Two teams of rapid response: against the tax provisions only in 2009 prescribed more than 1,200 million euros of tax debts. The problem is not resolved by successive legislative changes that diminish the guarantees of the taxpayer to accommodate the state's inefficiency. Resolves itself with a firm political will to avoid, with competence, the prescription. We therefore propose: the urgent establishment of a permanent expert team (task force) under the DGCI, devoted exclusively to the treatment and enforcement of tax debts that are at risk of forfeiture or prescription; the creation of a team of judges to settle tax claims related to the settlement and the amount of tax collecting more than one million euros and which are still in the administrative and tax courts (TAF); creating the TAF sections up to deal with particularly complex or significantly high values; flexibility of arbitration in tax matters to include within its scope the resolution of these cases; enhanced rate of compensatory interest to be paid by the tax authorities for lack of timely compliance with the decisions of the tax courts in favor of taxpayers. 38. To facilitate the voluntary payment In the fiscal area, it is also important to take steps to facilitate the voluntary payment of taxpayers. It should be ensured, namely: the reform of the system of binding information of an urgent nature also covering the legal and tax framework of future events, to give greater security to the investment of economic agents; easing the system of prior agreements on transfer pricing (APAs) in order to provide greater security to the relationship between taxpayers and the tax administration; wide dissemination of general guidelines issued by the tax authorities, in order to facilitate voluntary compliance of taxpayers and knowledge for these the interpretation followed by the tax administration in concrete materials; prepare for the future, the figure of the "taxpayer's manager" in permanent monitoring systems; reform of the tax credits to offset the tax regime and not at the initiative of the taxpayer, to facilitate payment of taxes by such means; easing the payment scheme on tax benefits owed to notorious cases of financial hardship and predictable economic consequences for debtors; and strict adherence by the tax authorities of the rights and guarantees of taxpayers, especially concerning tax inspection, tax assessment and enforcement of tax debts. 39. More ambition in settlement of debts and income Taking into account the change of paradigm of the relationship between taxpayers and the state, the CDS supports the creation of a permanent system of settlement of tax liabilities that may have strong success that will reduce litigation and allow a meaningful snap revenue. 40. Give priority to tax courts and "democratize" arbitration The situation of tax court is not extendable. Despite the judges' efforts, it is not completely acceptable that a considerable proportion of GDP - some information points for amounts exceeding EUR 14 billion - is "stop" in the courts. The current interest compensation system is not deterrent for the delay. The next government will have to make a considered reform of the functioning and technical support from TAF, if you want to solve better and faster tax disputes. In our view, the tax arbitrage, in which the CDS has been beaten, was "downgraded" in practice; It should become an independent feature value to decrease more quickly processes. MANIFESTO-Hood + CMY CM MY CY Separadores.pdf CMY K 4 05/11/13 7:51 PM Putting the economy grow 1. If the debt is the plea, growth is the central issue Portugal is experiencing the second recession in two years. It is true that this situation is mainly the result of a perfectly disastrous governance, but it is also true that in the last ten years our average annual rate of growth was 0.7 \%, which is clearly mediocre. As stated by the President, the gross national income per capita in the same period in real terms, it grew only 0.1 \%. The problem is not just cyclical. It is much more serious, it is also structural. Portugal can not systematically present an external deficit of around 9 \% of GDP. As is well in sight, this trajectory and completely unsustainable, the result is severe and is very real sacrifices. So we have to reverse this logic and get the economy to grow. The projection of international institutions, and own mission with which the Government negotiated external assistance, points to two years of recession. We have to mitigate, as far as we can; but we have, above all, ensure that the second half of the legislature is effective growth. 2. Refocus economic policy on SMEs and exporters In Portugal there are about 300,000 micro, small and medium enterprises, which account for about 2 million jobs. These companies have been severely punished, not only by the recession, but also by a disinterested bureaucrat and interventionist state. Therefore refocus the Portuguese economic policy in SMEs and in particular the export companies. Recent events have made it painfully clear that the CDS was right when he warned of the unsustainability of the Portuguese Trade Balance deficit and public debt. We must therefore act urgently to prevent this trend. 3. Tax credits to companies that increase exports, employment and productive reinvestment As we have stated, the state of public finances does not allow a general policy of tax cuts. But the need for economic growth requires a selective tax policy, focused and effective. The CDS will work immediately after June 5, the figure of tax credits. It has the huge advantage of having little impact or even neutral in the budget, but at the same time very attractive to businesses. The CDS will focus on tax credits, especially for SMEs, in three areas: increased export capacity, productive reinvestment and hiring workers. The aim is to encourage exports, animate investment and combat unemployment. The tax credit must be naturally contracted with the relevant agencies and departments. The credit figure tax, which focuses on business taxes has two alternative or cumulative formulas that deepen the CDS: may concern the surplus contracted, paying the tax (in which case the state keeps the recipe); and / or may consist of larger facilities and selective reductions in total tax (in which case the budgetary impact is acceptable - because there are economic efficiencies - and by compensatory spending cuts). CDS plans to launch this program of tax credits - if necessary, gradually - in 2012. 4. simpler tax system The CDS supports the simplification of the tax system, making it less complex and labyrinthine. We want a stable tax system that facilitates compliance of taxpayers and the safety of investors. We propose: public consultation with market players (including the TOCs, ROCs, auditors and lawyers) before the legislative changes, so that they are consensual, lasting and technically well prepared; publication of "preparatory work" or "explanatory notes" with the tax changes and, where necessary, issue "instructions" detailed as to the way taxpayers should comply with them. 5. Open negotiations on the European Union to create a VAT cash basis CDS managed to have passed, for the first time, a European Parliament resolution which recommends the creation of a simplified regime for cash VAT choosing the smallest companies. This means that these companies no longer have to hand over the VAT to the state with the bill and can now deliver it only when actually receive the money. We know that the application of the cash basis means negotiations with the European Union, but we know that some countries have managed to apply it and Portugal need it urgently. In the case of transactions with state agencies in particular it is absolutely unjust that the state requires of a company that you forward money from a tax that he should. 6. Continue faster VAT reimbursement During the previous legislature, CDS hit up by a lot of changes to make life easier for SMEs. We got some important victories. That's what happened to the VAT refunds quicker: got a monthly repayment system longer, when many companies were able to sign, with the remaining repayments also rose from 90 to 60 days. There are herds of time in the reimbursement gains, but we must be alert to compliance. We know that a lot remains to be done, but we are also confident that we can turn the confidence that entrepreneurs have placed in us very concrete improvements in day-to-day business. 7. Improve the State of the payment periods is putting money circulating in the economy! Also in the previous legislature, the CDS has achieved a major breakthrough to put the state to behave as a good person and at the same time, as a careful manager. Was consecrated the default interest payment scheme for cases in which the state is late which means, on the one hand, that individuals become less prejudiced when they have to deal with a defaulting State and, moreover, that the State is bound to be more disciplined, diligent and dutiful. This was an important step but there is still much to do. Remain many cases of systematic delays and perfectly absurd payment periods (the last published list of state entities in payment terms, the period of highest payout was more than a year!). So, we want to ensure compliance with deadlines for payments to suppliers throughout the state, including public companies, municipalities and regional and municipal enterprises. In some sectors, particularly the health, it is urgent to prevent the postponement as a form of non-recognition of billing Hospitals EPE the ACSS. We advocate a list of state debts, public and transparent, as demanding as the list of tax debtors. It is a matter of equity. 8. Tax Competitiveness: practical measures and an international strategy CDS will also submit proposals for review of international tax policy of the Portuguese State, in particular through the conclusion of new conventions to avoid double taxation (CDT) and the renegotiation of the ancient CDT with those countries in which Portuguese companies invest more, to optimize the Portuguese investment abroad; the tax regime applicable to holding companies; and thin capitalization rules, to adopt international best practices, in order to facilitate the financing of Portuguese companies. We want to strengthen the position of Portugal as an international investment platform in African countries of Portuguese-speaking (Lusophone Africa) and Timor - Leste by easing the elimination of the regime of economic double taxation of dividends received as well as the extent of tax neutrality regime the restructuring transactions (mergers, divisions, transfers of assets and exchanges of shares) with companies located in this country. To attract more foreign investment in strategic sectors and support investment projects of Portuguese companies abroad, CDS will propose, at the right time, improvements in the system of tax benefits for productive investment contractual and tax code of the investment. 9. The issue of TSU: the meaning of our prudence The CDS has always been in favor of measures to reduce Single Social Tax paid by companies. Conceptually, this "fiscal devaluation" helps the jobs and growth. The memorandum signed by the Portuguese state with the external mission points out, in 2012, for a reduction of TSU, but requires, as a condition to be eligible as the budget neutrality, making mention of a review of tables and VAT rates. The CDS, the statement handed to institutions, put this point as lacking best solution, because we wanted to avoid a maximum VAT rate rise to 25 \%. An election campaign and the limited access by the opposition, tax information, are not the best conditions to resolve a matter that is sensitive. Proof of this is that you confuse VAT restructuring measures already planned for 2012 (and consigned to deficit reduction by EUR 410 million) restructuring the VAT to finance the downtown TSU. Now, it should be stressed that assets through restructuring of VAT, are already limited by budgetary objective that the CDS has pledged to fulfill. Taking into account the reservation that we issued; the need to reduce TSU be significant, to be effective in employment and economy; and inefficiency of minimalist reductions (which risk loss of revenue without impact on growth and employment); the very high cost of effective reductions; the fact that the interest rate used by the US in the loan be - unlike the IMF - punitive and have budgetary implications; and even taking into account the existence of priorities to stimulate businesses, jobs and growth, examples of which are the price of energy or tax credits, the reforms of the justice and labor law; and even the scarce definition of the type of companies that should benefit from the measure, CDS wishes to maintain, as a duty of honesty with citizens, a cautious stance in this regard. The question is not conceptual; is possibility. The technical teams of CDS seek solutions combined between spending reductions and other sources of revenue not entailing the rise of higher VAT rate. However, with the information we have, and fulfilling the commitment to just make promises that are achievable, declare that the CDS only raise your request for negotiating a better solution, if you are firmly convinced that the reduction (not quantified by the mission) It does not mean a risk of default of the goals of foreign aid agreement. 10. NAM as true minister of exports and investment The state has to get used to the idea that industries with export intentions are our passport out of the difficult situation in which the government placed the country. So it has to be put at the service of these industries all ability to influence the AICEP and diplomatic network, to promote Portuguese exports among accrediting States, helping to attracting foreign direct investment, supporting specifically the deployment of Portuguese companies and to provide, upon request and where possible, information that may be relevant to the national economic agents. The CDS sees the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of completely innovative way. Be diplomat, today in Portugal 2011, is to know, above all, sell the Portugal brand abroad, attract investors, markets work, support businesses, systematic, proactive and measurable. In the current situation, the prime minister and the foreign minister will have to be the first "sellers" of Portugal brand in focused world that interests us, the best "promoters" of the companies and products that we export and the best "recruiters" of foreign investment . The Portuguese diplomacy is competentíssima, as evidenced by international positions he has obtained for Portugal. But the priority is to check that power a new, intensive and very strong culture of economic diplomacy as the center of a highly skilled profession in the state and the state. The biggest structural reform we advocate is the integration of AICEP in the NAM, to add and join forces network of diplomatic and economic network abroad; changes in operating capacity of AICEP, it must follow the procedures also in the field of payments support; and a profound reform of IAPMEI. This new vision of what should be the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not dispense other duties traditionally assigned to it, and that in this difficult scenario take on a new importance as the defense of Lusophone; the bet in relations with CPLP countries; the deepening of our international cooperation and the promotion of our immigrant communities, whether traditional communities or those generated by the phenomenon of "new emigration". The defense of the Portuguese language and the teaching of the Portuguese can not be devalued. 11. A bet very strong in the productive sectors that are strategic to increase exports and decrease imports is essential that Portugal take a radical bet on productive sectors. Apart from exporting industries and services, it is crucial that public policies focus on areas where we have distinctive natural advantages and that, therefore, we have great competitive potential. This is the case of Agriculture, Forest and the Sea, but also Tourism, Creative Industries and Culture and Leisure. 12. A Ministry of Agriculture with political clout The first appointment of the CDS on this matter is simple but fundamental: with the CDS, farmers will have a politically strong Ministry of Agriculture, with own seat in the Cabinet. With CDS, the national contribution of the PRODER will be assured, and will recover a significant policy of contracting with the agricultural associations. We have to make agriculture, forestry and agro-industry a strategic sector and a national priority. We must reverse the policy, develop the productive potential and boost the rural economy. This has to be done with farmers, forest owners, with the agro-industrial companies, with business services and factors of production and with the support of consumers. Increase agricultural and forestry production and consume our products have become a national imperative. 13. The challenge to achieve food self-sufficiency, measured in global terms (by value) within seven years is possible, is necessary, it is vital. Starting from a food deficit which is more than 3,000 M € / year, the Portuguese CDS launches the challenge - putting all policy instruments to work - achieve a level of self-sufficiency, measured in global terms, the 7 space years (the usual period of EU funding programs to support agricultural investment). This does not mean that Portugal will be self-sufficient in all productions and cultures, which would obviously be impossible; but that is to radically say that our goal is that the food deficit quoted is fixed, passing our exports in the sector to offset imports. Portugal can produce more and should produce better. Entrepreneurs and farmers are able. And agriculture, as the forest, as the agri-food industry are crucial to desendividar Portugal, exporting more and replacing imports. 14. Make the PRODER fast, simple and friend of farmers To achieve the objective statement is crucial advantage with effective productive use all the means available at Community funds. Starting with the PRODER. The CDS will ensure fast PRODER review, in close collaboration with the European Commission, simplifying it (if possible by setting support unit as in VITIS) and reorienting it for the increase and improvement of agricultural and forestry production. The change has to be made on the criteria of valuation relative of projects, focusing on feasibility, not just competitiveness, avoiding the excessive size of the equipment, focusing on directly productive investment, taking into account regional diversity and changing the project submission procedure that will continuously receive and will no longer be for closed periods. The Ministry has to get used to decide applications on time and making payments arrive on time. Portugal has to be able to recover and to significantly exceed the average number of modernization projects financed with public support, the five-year period 2000/2004, which was 13,200 a year, and that, unfortunately, in the following years, dropped to negligible levels due to lack of support. We also have to establish an oversight mechanism "bureaucratic cleansing" to eliminate an unacceptable bureaucracy that only an unhealthy suspicion as the farmer can justify. 15. Try to solve the problem of European fines in SPS and addressing their causes CDS will seek by all means utilize fully the financial envelope devoted annually to direct income payments under the Single Payment Scheme (SPS) to be paid to farmers early. But not disguise the reality. Fruit of an inconceivable disorganization of the Ministry, carried out in socialist consulate, our country is facing legal and technical disputes concerning returns significant amounts as the 2006 campaign, 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010, the total value is still uncleared. It will be one of the priorities of a government CDS. On the root causes own incompetence of the state as the Land Parcelling and controls system. And these points have to correct many procedures. 16. Prepare and renegotiation of the CAP CDS will engage in the negotiation of the CAP reform after 2013, to ensure the necessary instruments, financial and regulatory to increase and improve our agricultural production, forestry and agri- Industrial throughout the country. In this matter, we have to group with other states - members revealing identical interests - advocating maintaining a strong CAP, structured on two pillars, with an equitable distribution of income support between states - members, with specific help for environmentally guidance favorable, less-favored regions and small farmers. We should also deepen the renegotiation of the CAP to promote the use of instruments and policies to support income and production that facilitate the achievement of the objective of self-sufficiency, measured in global terms (in value), as stated. 17. Reinvent and promote "mark Portugal" The CDS will engage in an intense and fruitful way in triggering a national campaign involving the entire Portuguese society with the aim of making the agricultural sector a reason not only of national pride, but also domestic consensus. It needs to join the table farmers, associations, distribution and policy makers ensuring that not only the PRODER backups are intended for production of agricultural goods to replace imports and contribute to our food sovereignty and its proper distribution. We want, in the next legislature, streamline a voluntary culture of "buy Portuguese", which extends to the State and the public. 18. Finish with the slump in forestry policy is time to break the vicious cycles that persist in our forest (fractionation, management, fires and diseases). Thus, fractionation leading to abandonment can only be countered through the forest associations, functional land consolidation and collective management (condominium management): we need to revitalize the ZIFs with consistency and attractiveness. Forest up is essential and must be done. It needs to create a mechanism for security and risk management, with support from the European Union and together with insurers, to substantially reduce the risk of forest fires. Finally, you have to make the decline in suberícolas stands and fighting pine nematode true priorities. The potential of the forest sector is clearly under-tapped and is truly unacceptable residual degree of utilization of PRODER measures to the forest. 19. The future of Portugal passes the savings Sea The sea is definitely the economic resource with potential for development in the Portuguese economy, both for its natural abilities as the abandonment that was voted over the past few years. It is also one of the features it has an identifying character that will bring us a more natural and consolidated development path. For this bet to be successful, one must choose priorities depending on the capacity of faster results are obtained. We have to choose the activities that are already at our disposal and that immediately will find investors interested in its development. Just like Agriculture, Sea desendivida Portugal. So the CDS opted for a Ministry of Agriculture and Sea, preparing a strong concentration of expertise (currently dispersed) in various areas of the maritime economy. 20. We must regain national shipowners The CDS supports the stimulation and development of a class of national shipowners, the national capital and / or external and the promotion of new activities in the component of the shipbuilding and repair, taking advantage as infrastructure They exist in our country. This entails creating the attractive conditions than other EU countries have already established and to ensure, shipowners already in operation and that might have it, creating competitive conditions that are considered of interest and leading them to change your base for our country. Our aim is to progressively create a cluster of shipowners in Portugal who will bring us the ability to intervene in the middle of freight worldwide and to promote the creation of a new group of entrepreneurs in one of that greater wealth industries have produced for countries and business people who invest in it. With regard to shipbuilding and alongside the promotion of a network of national shipowners, which will always result conditions to support their establishment becomes critical condition this support construction obligation of their vessels in domestic shipyards. 21. A competitive ports policy at the entrance to Europe We have to position themselves as service providers to other European countries by putting in definitely as a gateway and out of Europe, benefiting from our excellent geographical position. In port and maritime matters, the much-vaunted outskirts of Portugal is a central, if harnessed wisely. For this theme is also key leverage the unique conditions Sines port to attract production and assembly investment to an area where much can be done again, and so well done. We must also increase our capabilities for control and policing of that maritime space, which should be done through new capacity already under construction in Viana sites. 22. Negotiate best fisheries in Brussels CDS believes a cultural shift across the ocean economy, to enable us to relaunch the fishing industry in terms of global competitiveness. It is necessary to promote fish production and the appreciation of the Portuguese fishing as one of the best international delicacies. For fishing, it is necessary to look for better negotiations quotas in Brussels and develop a stimulating policy to promote the creation of new and bigger business for this sector. For fish production, it is essential to invest in training of a new class of professionals who, in addition to those already today responsible for the creation of animal food on earth, are the new animal breeders at sea. 23. The maritime tourism as a bet CDS maintains a strong impetus to maritime tourism activities, is the increase in cruises that visit our country, is the creation of support services to ships that visit us and to those who pass through here without going . The key is to promote the creation of sea centers along our coast, giving them the minimum conditions for the development of their maritime activity projects and thus ensuring the cultural proximity to the sea theme. 24. Focusing on innovation and research on the sea CDS wants Portugal to lay the foundations that promote the development of research projects, both with regard to energy as the chemistry and biology, so that our country becomes a active partner at the international level, and putting in as prime candidates to benefit from income generated by these new areas of development. Launching a knowledge base on the sea, which should be subject of study in Portuguese schools is the most effective way to turn the sea we have a theme always present in the structure of our economic development. The extraordinary experience of the Continental Shelf Mission is an example of what the Portuguese scientific skills at sea. The continental shelf is an issue that we will follow closely. 25. A new vision is universally accepted tourism policy that tourism is an absolutely strategic sector for economic growth in Portugal. Moreover, a debt framework. In a particularly demanding scenario, a new vision is necessary for this sector. The CDS has long known this and proposes that tourism policy to focus on growth in revenue per tourist, more than the number of tourists, and promoting promote greater coverage of tourism, in particular betting on average offer or small ( the investment strategy should not be concentrated in large PIN, but still ...). We have to develop aggressive marketing policies in the sub-sector senior tourism (who prefers to travel "short" and safe destinations) and focusing on the development of emerging markets or opportunity (for example, China, India, Brazil, Eastern and others). 26. Take advantage of the economic recovery opportunity that tourism is CDS proposes very specific measures to streamline this sector, such as the simplification of the tourism legislation with a group tour of the Code and of tourist activities; the reorganization of structures and regional tourist agencies, since the current model has too many divisions and overlaps; and strengthening public education in this area to offer more streamlined training, in collaboration with the private. 27. Culture as a factor of competitiveness, growth and cohesion Culture is, over more of our eight centuries of history, an essential factor of cohesion among the Portuguese - heritage, identity and its contemporary expression - the importance of promoting for their qualifications, for economic development and international affirmation of Portugal. The critical moment, which runs through Portugal, it must be a strategic moment. It is now widely accepted the importance of cultural and creative industries as innovation factors, differentiation and development - including regional and local - in particular economic. The defense of the common heritage is the primary responsibility of the state in cultural terms. Its actions must be decentralized and have a management with maximum utilization of resources. Support for contemporary artistic expression must take into account the emergency criteria - before cases of need - and be the subject of a careful evaluation - such as the support to the foundation. We propose a transversal action in the field of Culture, an integrated strategy with the Education and Tourism. If the school promotes art education and how public, and culture protects, investigates and expresses the heritage and identity, is tourism that advertises and promotes. The Portuguese Language and our intangible heritage are factors claim Portugal, we have to learn to defend and enhance internationally. 28. The economics of creativity in the global market In the knowledge society, through information and communication technologies, the economics of creative industries assume a leading role. In this area, the project culture, design and creation, the capital gain is the qualified human capital. Access to the increasingly massified - and on multiple platforms - to content, on the one hand, and the growing demand for a personalized and innovative offer, the growing demand for a personalized and innovative offer, the growth potential of the creative industries mede- by the extension of the Portuguese language in the world. To take advantage of this opportunity, we consider relevant development activities of agglomerations and the connection between the creation and its enjoyment - the distribution. Defend intellectual property in support of a right, driving innovation and attract investment in creative continuity. 29. Do not privatize CGD; do CGD a development bank to the economy CDS supports maintaining CGD under the control of the Portuguese state, with a very clear mission - a clear political mandate to support SMEs and even more especially in consolidation and export processes. CGD has not had the expected success in this mission, and it was like "car broom" of what happened in the BPN and BPP, very serious cases of financial crime and supervision failure. At a time such as we are experiencing, CGD could and should play a key role in access to credit for businesses, particularly for exporting SMEs.

in its proper retribution, they are able to promote the initiative, investment and innovation without which there is no possible economic growth. But the market only lead to the best solutions, both in terms of production and distribution efficiency, both in terms of promoting growth if its operation is supported by a competition policy that opposes the practices contrary to the public interest and abusive behavior to the detriment of consumers. Without regulation there is no real competition free. Market regulation should only intervene as it is clear that competition is not sufficient to ensure that the market functions to provide efficiency and social utility, ie before "market failures". The purpose of the regulation is to create competitive structures and their performance should be limited to what is necessary to achieve that objective. But in the case where regulation is required, you have to work with all the consequences. The CDS does not accept that, to the detriment of the interests of consumers and taxpayers, to perpetuate the natural tendency of the regulatory frameworks for self-justification, often supported by powerful political and economic interests to which the regulation concerns from the outset by its anti-competitive effects. The sectoral regulation can not be synonymous with market manipulation or imposition of a bureaucracy of technical or supposedly enlightened employees. We must clearly say that in Portugal, in practice, regulation, rather than promoting competition, has often "protected" vested interests, conflicting with his mission. The CDS proposes to increase competition in Portugal, that all legislation - new or already in place - be subject to strict scrutiny from the point of view of its compatibility with the requirements of competition and end up licensing mechanisms or prior approval excessive for the pursuit of economic activities and, to make matters worse, in some cases, are involved in deciding the established operators, whose aim is, of course, hinder the entry of new competitors. 35. A New Competition Authority The Competition Authority has not shown up to their responsibilities. Its function is to define and implement, a participatory way, a vigorous competition policy, to oversee effective and efficient compliance with the law and exercise with dynamism and sense an educational role with the business community. The CDS wants to give coherence, transparency and security to the legal status of independent administrative bodies, including the CA, so submit for the approval of Parliament one (long desired) legal framework of project of such entities, in line with what, Moreover, as proposed in the constitutional review. The new legal regime that the CDS proposes desgovernamentaliza and become truly independent independent regulators, through a tripartite system in which the government proposes, the president appoints and supervises the Assembly. The independence of any authority can not dissociate itself from its obligation to account for what the CDS also proposes that the Council of the Competition Authority and the managements of the sectoral regulatory authorities report annually on report of its activities to Parliament and the respective presidents attend the parliamentary committees responsible to provide all the explanations on the implementation of policies that are in charge, without prejudice to the respect due to the confidentiality required by the business secrets of the undertakings and the presumption of innocence. The amendment to that effect, the Constitution shall, of course, the necessary changes in their statutes, which should be carried out in stages, starting with the Competition Authority, given its transversal nature and exemplary. A new constitutional norm and new laws require, of course, the appointment, according to the new rules, a new Administration PCA. 36. Court competence specialized for competition and regulation CDS also considers it essential to create conditions for effective and competent judicial protection of individual rights, as opposed to the existence of such a heavy penalty system as are those which, by the way justifiably match for breach of competition rules. We welcome the creation of a court specialized competence for competition and regulatory issues with composition, structure and procedural rules to the complexity of the mission that is entrusted to him. This court must not only ensure judicial review of the legality of the AdC activity and sectoral regulators, but also support the ordinary courts in their task of applying competition law, the national and the European Union, notably through the recognition of indemnity rights to all those (consumers or businesses) that are actually harmed by behavior contrary to the rules applicable in various markets. 37. Labour Laws: pragmatism advised to renew fixed-term contracts in 2011 Unemployment in Portugal reached 11.2 \% in official statistics, which account for 620,000 Portuguese job seekers and not find it. Many of them are young people, many of them are women, many of them are couples and unemployment is especially hard in some specific areas of the country. In an environment of these, with estimates where unemployment reaches 13 \% is necessary to have answers to help contracting and not to facilitate redundancies. Up to 200,000 Portuguese are today working with a contract because of a legislative amendment decided by the Government in 2009, since the height of the crisis, may not be renewed. We therefore propose immediately the possibility of renewing these contracts, although exceptionally. It is the pragmatism that determines this choice. Growing, is effective stimulate hiring in lasting regime. In recession, it is absurd to void the renewal of fixed-term contracts. 38. Give the remainder of unemployment benefits to those who hire without term makes sense too, without increasing public spending, create policies that help firms to hire this exceptional situation. Accordingly propose that can be attributed globally, for once, the employer who signed with an unemployed person a permanent employment contract the remainder of the unemployment benefits to which the beneficiaries would be entitled, extending the currently existing regime for the creation of own job. 39. Lighten the Labour Code for SMEs The reform of labor legislation is a challenge. It makes no sense to treat the same way large companies with complex departments dealing with human resources or skilled litigation services, just as we often treat micro, small and medium enterprises, which do not have the same installed capacity. It makes sense to create its own rules in the Labour Code, and adapt labor law for micro and SMEs, removing red tape and excessive procedures and creating rules that are adapted the law to the reality of our businesses. 40. Auto-Europe is an example that should multiply One should also facilitate social dialogue-based business. Encourage business agreements that allow find specific solutions for workers and employers is essential. There are several examples of company agreements, like the Autoeuropa, it was possible social consensus that stimulated the empreses and ensured the defense of workers' interests. It is this model that we have to insist. In Portugal, business negotiation is faced often with a strong "conservatism", both union and employer. Now, countries with high economic and social levels, there is very developed, in a logic of compromise and negotiation, rather than class struggle, the company agreements. 41. The link between wage and productivity Low productivity is one of our greatest economic and social problems. Here too we regressed. It must change aversion individual merit and the leveling down of the effort and work for a performance bonus culture and stimulus to productivity gains and competitiveness. Respecting of course the agreements on wages, we argue that wage developments must take into account the need to increase productivity. In times of growing economic, and only in this scenario - to prevent the measure discourages hiring - CDS argues that the productivity gains of a company, which is objectively attributable to the factor work should be reflected in a compensation level salary of worker. 42. Holidays: ensuring rest periods without affecting productivity in 2003 was a Minister of CDS area for the first time, opened up the possibility of changing the dates of the holidays in order to reduce too long bridges and increase productivity. It is the solution that many of our European partners have and allowing longer periods of rest without reducing our productivity and competitiveness. It is time, in a consensual manner, respecting the social partners and the various spiritual and social sensitivities involved, resume this discussion, ensuring the change of some holidays - not all - for 2ªa subsequent Monday, adding them to the compulsory rest day on average is Sunday. 43. Energy: Increasing Competition and preserve the sovereignty CDS believes that the private sector participation in the energy markets needs to be deepened. This matter has to be a strict separation between the supply and production operations, where the presence of private and increased competition are desirable for transport operations - linked to physical networks - that has to be extreme care once that these are natural monopolies. So it is vital to ensure here (and in the case of privatization of REN) that the national interest is safeguarded and that the quality and safety of service throughout the country are not called into question. In addition to these care, CDS promote the creation of contractual and regulatory mechanisms - in line with the MIBEL and MIBGAS - to ensure security of supply, cross-border interconnections, quality of service and fair network access by all competitors, as well as a ERSE with more powers. There needs to be an assessment of the share of renewable and political decisions and acts in the electric bill, according to the recessive situation which we live. 44. Review the organic and tools for a sustainable environmental policy is a sad fact that in matters of environmental policy, the electoral commitments of the PS and some good intentions, very little has been achieved. The management of the environment and spatial planning implies on the one hand, inter-generational responsibility and on the other, the notion that it is up to governments set the path towards a more sustainable economy with less pressure on natural capital and more efficient use of resources. Accordingly, the CDS proposes to appropriate and rethinking the structures and the organic guardianship of the sector, which is re-evaluated the effectiveness and timeliness of environmental policy instruments, in order to ensure the desired level of protection and enhancement of environmental resources, with the assumption that the correct management involves internalizing these resources in decision criteria and necessary and relevant economic activities for national development. MANIFESTO-Hood + CMY CM MY CY Separadores.pdf CMY K 5 5/11/13 7:51 PM Avoid social exclusion 1. The CDS does not abandon the social question left is not enough to pay what we should - clean up the finances - and get the economy to grow. The CDS does not leave the monopoly on social issues and the fight against social exclusion in the hands of left and extremely left who have no realistic solutions. PS and PSD, after PEC PEC, systematically forgotten the fight against poverty and exclusion. They froze minimum pensions, family allowance withdrew the middle and lower-middle class, did not act on unemployment and withdrew reimbursement of medicines to the elderly and dependents. An austerity height has to be a social ethics in state decisions that do not always put the effort on them. The proposed CDS - the equivalent cut in spending - an increase of social, rural and minimum pensions to at least the level of inflation. The time has come to give us reason. In 2012 it must be possible to thaw the increase in minimum pensions that PS and PSD approved in 2011. The current economic and social crisis created new poverty risks associated with unemployment, excessive debt and family breakdown - to accumulate with existing problems . Before the implementation of austerity measures, it must be safe guidance of protecting those who have less or more help needs; the awareness that the same measures have different impacts in different situations. At the current juncture, it is necessary to consolidate and strengthen the social policies as a way to lessen the effects of the crisis on the most vulnerable sectors of the population and imports show new ways. More innovative and more transformers. It is therefore necessary to reverse the logic of some social policy measures undertaken by the central state, mostly based on a "top down" approach. Because local policies involve the community, they are based on its own momentum and strengthen it. In social policy, the location is near the center and is often bureaucratic. We propose the transfer of powers from the central services of social security for local authorities, a motor of social networking sites, because we defend that new answers to combat poverty and social exclusion should be centered on the requirement and innovation in local intervention. We advocate the implementation of a computer system to monitor all social benefits granted to measure with accuracy the real impact on improving people's quality of life. This database should cross the information on the beneficiaries of these measures, in order to reduce the support of duplication of risk by ensuring the temporary nature which must govern their allocation. We maintain a concern for social and professional inclusion of people with disabilities and their rehabilitation, with special attention to the structures geared to their support. 2. To defend the purchasing power of the minimum, rural and social pensions One of the differences between the PEC review initially presented by the Government and the program presented by the European Commission, ECB and IMF is the possibility of increasing the lowest pensions, from 189 € , € 227 and € 246, respectively, which were frozen in 2011. The updating the value of expected inflation in the OE 2011, 2.2 \%, represent an expenditure of around EUR 85 million. The CDS is committed to - the 2012 budget - do not freeze the minimum, social and rural pensions; our goal is to be updated to inflation value to avoid the loss of purchasing power; on the other hand, to ensure fiscal neutrality, we will make bolder cuts in state intermediate consumption. We would, over the next legislature to promote a sustained program of updating of social, rural and minimum pensions, which involves an assessment of the social supplement for the elderly, in order to ensure a coherent response in terms of social benefits. 3. A strong contracting with Mercy and IPSS The policy of solidarity in social fracture time is made combining the Welfare State and the "society-security", ie the extraordinary network of social institutions arriving where the state does not arrive . Similar to what we advocate with the Mercies, CDS wants a new generation of contracts between the state, charitable institutions and the IPSS to achieve the objective of social policy and transfer of enforcement and monitoring of these policies skills. The CDS is especially attentive to the taxation of Mercy and IPSS, so that does not become an insurmountable obstacle for institutions that do not have lucrative purpose. 4. Innovate with the social management of social facilities A State which has a different look and less demanding for the services that are provided directly by you, it is not equitable nor fair State. In the socially advanced, state of confidence in certified IPSS and credible is high, there is less confusion between the provider functions, financier and regulator. So we advocate the transfer of social facilities that are under direct management of the Central State to the solidarity sector entities that integrate social networking site, the State playing an effective financing and regulatory role. Thus, to safeguard fairness, accuracy and quality of social responses. It is to take social management of some social facilities. Also on this level it is important to look at what is happening with the revenues of the social game which is managed by Santa Casa da Misericordia de Lisboa. These funds are essential to the social work of many institutions. One can find new more attractive proposals to maintain and increase revenue in recent years, as is happening in many countries counterparts. 5. Sit down social institutions in the Social Dialogue Social institutions have a growing importance in our economy and is a partner with a relevance that justifies their entry into the Permanent Commission for Social Dialogue. Many of the agreements that go through conciliation apply directly to these entities, which do not have the right to comment or participate in decisions. The approval of the Contributory Code, with a worsening of social charges for the IPSS and Mercy is an example of what should not happen again. Defend why the inclusion of a representative of this sector in the Standing Committee for Social Dialogue. 6. Give strength to the social economy: NSRF reimbursement equal to municipalities We know that, as a whole, financial turnover generated by the so-called "social economy", the solidarity sub-sector, which fall under the IPSS is responsible for about 180,000 posts Work. The way of the development of this sector and social answers provided here, should be based on the sustainability of their institutions, through economic activities to strengthen their capacity to intervene. The legislation should not and can not harm the third sector entities engaged in economic activities, whose income is intended to reinvestments and enlargements of social responses. We should, rather than at present, privileging the IPSS who can diversify their sources of funding, through the creation of social value and innovation. We believe that measures such as the simplification of bureaucratic procedures for the creation of these entities or setting up support for small structures and medium-sized entities of the social economy in order to reduce their dependence on state aid and ensure its sustainability, promote social cohesion and reinforce the local action capacity. Not only advocate the taxation of these institutions as we want investment projects eligible and priority of the IPSS and Mercy start to have a share of the NSRF in 85 \% in convergence regions, similar to what happens to the local authorities. 7. Simplification rules of Social Security - Adjust laws and regulations to reality Social institutions today live many unnecessary conflict with the state, around legal and regulatory rules that are manifestly inadequate in the face of reality. Institutions must comply with high safety and quality standards, but does not make sense to apply regulations in such a tight and rigorous way that prevent, for example, that the expansion of old equipment excludes often the establishment of cooperation agreements, for failing to respect the rules on new buildings. We propose, in conjunction with the institutions and technical Social Security, review the present legislation, ensuring their simplification and adaptation to the national reality. 8. Unemployment benefit: attention to unemployed couples In 2010 unemployment in Portugal reached 11.1 \% in official statistics, which account for 620,000 Portuguese job seekers and not find it. Many of them are young people, many of them are women, many of them are couples and unemployment is especially hard in some specific areas of the country. In the unemployment benefit, as in other social benefits, can not have measures to make the option to decline a job more attractive than the return to the labor market. First of all the rights that must be secured to an unemployed is the right to work. The sense - and austerity - of certain measures provided for by the international mission in this matter can only be this. In contrast, the faster access of young people to unemployment benefit (reduction of 15 warranty period to 12 months), hosts an idea of ​​always CDS. Social protection of self-employed workers should be improved. Unemployment benefit should reach independent and similar workers who have paid discounts, which demonstrably are in the event of unemployment, which should be subject to a rigorous process of allocating and monitoring. This concern of the CDS forms part of the international mission program. We want, even in public finances containment time improving the situation of couples who have dependent children and, in your home, no job. They are, according to official statistics, 4,369 families. The CDS will propose in the 2012 state budget, a measure to help these families in special difficulty, which measure actual expenditure is not, moreover, significant; still, simply deduct bureaucratic costs of social security for financing. It's what we do. 9. Launch the Active Work Programme and United this operating logic based on the welfare state and the IPSS and Mercy, we advocate the strengthening and consistency of the work program and Active Solidarity (TAS), as proposed by CDS and only partly accepted by Government. It is to offer the unemployed an active occupation in the social sector - for example in homes, day centers, or home care. This program should allow join social benefit with an income supplement work, actively involving itself to training the unemployed / social worker, in order to make stable inclusion in the labor market. 10. To train social entrepreneurs and stimulate self-employment At a time when unemployment levels reach record numbers urges training for entrepreneurship and encourage self-employment as a way of combating poverty and social exclusion. Seek the Professional Insertion Offices are strengthened with qualified technical assistance to support the unemployed through models essentially practical training at the level of company management. Who is part of a job center should be informed and confronted with an Entrepreneur's Handbook, in order to present the possibilities and incentives for self-employment. But the self-employment programs can not run into repeated difficulties. Similarly, we need to encourage volunteering of people with expertise in management, which can function as a kind of "business angels" in terms of counseling and preparation for an entrepreneur to face the difficulties of the market in providing knowledge and skills allowing empower people to create small businesses, encouraging self-employment. Training for entrepreneurship is to foster a business and an opportunity. There are cycles of poverty that can only stop when you have specific skills. We advocate the need to define a Micro Statute Entrepreneur to safeguard those who want to create value through a business as a way to promote their social mobility, have some assurance not be worse off than they were before, without any protection social. In this respect, we propose that social support, including unemployment benefits may be frozen or suspended - alternatively to surrender at once - on the day that the business social entrepreneur is formalized and may be resumed if, perchance the company is not successful. Thus, the state does not spend more and promotes social initiative and empower citizens. 11. A major national program against food waste is possible! Do get the extra meals every day produced in canteens, restaurants and supermarkets to those in need is more possible than you think. Municipalities are key here: do the initial bridge between restaurants and acceding institutions and supermarkets. The first offer surplus that can not be sold to the public, but are in perfect condition being consumed, and it is up to the institutions only provide transport in food security conditions, these establishments to its final destination. The authorities responsible for establishing their bridges, to ensure that aid reaches those in need, not duplicating recipients and monitor the collection. It is possible, and CDS councilors already managed. Therefore, we propose to generalize the authorities of most of this opportunity and develop a simple regulation of the IPSS, ASAE and Finance, which allows the distribution of meals and foods, avoiding waste and ensuring the basic rules of food safety. It will be one of the strongest priorities of CDS: we know there is hunger phenomena and that there are families who are unable to fund two meals a day. 12. To appeal to the social responsibility of pharmacies and build a national program One of the main difficulties of the time we live in is the use of medications for the most vulnerable families - and especially the elderly. This concern has a long tradition in the CDS. In the Azores, we were authors of the "medicine vouchers" for poorer pensioners. To date, the measure remains. A municipality in the district of Lisbon, we were pioneers in social responsibility according pharmacies, who obtained membership and is working. This program promotes partnerships with pharmacies, as part of its social responsibility in order to ensure the availability of medicines to lower-income families, including the elderly, with due technical framework guaranteed by IPSS. We seek to spread this program by more and more municipalities, appealing precisely to the social responsibility of this sector for more in the state of social emergency in which we find ourselves. The margin of availability of medicines at very low income families must have, of course, technical framework - again the IPSS are essential - having municipalities a bridging role between sectors. 13. A huge stake in volunteering: helping those who help in time of severe economic and social crisis, it is urgent to strengthen the voluntary sector, but do it as a stimulus and not as "estatitização" of what society and it should be. Following the proposals of the CDS Task Force on volunteering, we advocate a National School of Volunteer Training, able to conduct initial and further training courses in the field of voluntary work. On the other hand, the awareness of children and young people for volunteering, is the first step so as to form a spirit of real participatory capacity in society. The school, in particular to the 3rd cycle level, should be the place where young people awaken to this reality. We believe that encouraging volunteering should be present in the school curriculum and students be seen as a complement to their civic education. As is now common in higher education, it is proposed a complement to secondary diploma stating as surplus value extra-curricular activities that may be taken into account for their civic and social training. To this extent, the legal regime of voluntary service in the field of voluntary social insurance, should anticipate the age of 16 years. At the level of municipalities is important to promote the creation of online Volunteering Banks, where one can cross the supply of volunteers and volunteer projects; where the needs are mirrored as well as availability. Promote volunteerism has ceased to be an option, it is a must. 14. RSI: the courage to separate the wheat from the chaff When the CDS started talking about fraud and excesses seen in the Social Insertion Income many criticized us. Today, even these critics give us reason and adopt some of the proposals that the CDS had to moralize a social benefit which is necessary, but it must be temporary. The CDS advocates: a. an inspection to the IHR, including through the submission of evidence of liability on income not only in the application of the provision (current law), but also on the renewal or enforcement action; the definition, in precise terms, the constitution of the household; a shorter period to celebrate the contract of insertion (60 days instead of the current 90 days) and its six-monthly check and increasing the number of regular inspections to be carried out to investigate the IHR duties; B. end the almost automatic renewal of the provision: the so-called minimum income must be temporary and therefore advocate that the obligation of the 3rd renewal of RSI pass depend on decision of the district director of social security; c. assignment of the benefit in kind, by the system of social vouchers consigned to specific costs, such as health, housing and food. Preference should be given to social institutions in the contracting of the services to which they relate social valleys; d. definition of a new power-competence for close inspection: IPSS contractually with the supervision of the provision of social institutions; and. enshrine the duty of social security establish protocols with Municipal Councils and Parish Councils, as well as social institutions, ensuring that all beneficiaries with active capacity for work can make "socially necessary labor" in the bodies or institutions referred to; f. effecting the "right and duty": adults with active capability must meet its obligations, by registering as job seekers, and attend in certain times and places; if the holder the right to refuse without justification RSI jobs, socially necessary work or training, the Centre shall forthwith communicate to the district authority of social security, ceasing the provision. g. the award of the RSI is incompatible with the failure by family responsibilities, school attendance or child care plans, and so is with the conviction has become final, the crimes typified in the law. 15. Center the NHS citizen and have more humanity in response Despite the improvement of the Portuguese health indicators since the creation of the NHS, the population has grievances. Rarely it is all about the technical quality of services or the qualification of professionals. The aspects that generate dissatisfaction are in Primary Health Care, the difficulty in getting appointment with a family doctor, and access supplementary diagnostic and therapeutic; and in hospitals, the difficulty in obtaining outpatient specialty and the wait for surgery. Moreover, a significant number of complaints is related to the lack of humanity in the response. All these failures compromise, clearly, the quality of our system, whose efficiency and humanity depend most Portuguese. The CDS, health policy, will give a focused attention to those described failures. 16. A focused approach: scrutinable plans, special attention to cancer, chronic diseases, dementia and rare diseases The health units and their services must restructure its organization on the basis of the patient, taking into account your diagnosis. International best practice shows that are services and professionals to accompany the patient in a multi and integrated interdisciplinary logic, saving the user the typical rush, erratic and difficult: it is not the patient who has to "fit" a fragmented organization . Examples of focused responses: a. in oncological diseases. Cancer is the second leading cause of death in Portugal. Every year about 22,000 people die of cancer. Despite the recognized excellence of professionals and experts, these are only half of those who should be formed (are active in about 130 oncologists and should be more than 200, are active in about 60 radiation therapists, when it would take more than 130). Added other factors leading international indicators to consider the answer to oncology Portugal "poorly": lack of systematic population-based screening; the absence of an effective referencing network; disorganization; and waiting times for diagnosis, multidisciplinary consultation, exaggerated surgery and radio / chemotherapy. B. in chronic diseases. It is estimated that half of the population suffers from at least one chronic disease. And it is estimated that there are between 500 and 600 million people living with five or more chronic conditions. It is urgent an integrated status for chronic diseases, ensuring progressively stability, trust and fairness in health care, adequate social protection and access to appropriate medications. c. in dementia. To respond to treatment of people with dementia, including Alzheimer's disease, and safeguard your family, it is one of the great challenges of the twenty-first century and a national priority. In Portugal is almost everything to do: it is urgent to conduct a thorough survey of people with dementia, draw a National Plan of Action for dementias, including progressively early access to reference centers, integrated care, the status of informal caregivers and equipment and specialized teams in this disease. d. in rare diseases: Rare diseases affect, as a whole, about 8 \% of the population. They are sick and their families, who do not have adequate protection, particularly in terms of a proper diagnosis; access to medication, rehabilitation or technical aids. The CDS is committed to dealing with much more care and scrutiny national plans against the disease in concrete. We want to highlight the specific plans in the four areas mentioned. 17. Commitment to radical and efficient palliative care CDS led palliative care to policy and institutional agenda. The proposal we made was good, efficient and meant a revolution among us about the dignity in the treatment of people with prolonged and irreversible diseases. The CDS will defend the creation of the National Network of Palliative Care, and advance by scrutinable and phased targets. Not only want to spend some structures and invest more in sick, as we know that a patient who needs palliative care means a more efficient expense if you have a specialized response than lost in the system, often the victim of excessive or inadequate treatment, or solicitadado to inappropriate care and diagnostics and that are objectively waste. Improve the response in stages, for example, available beds, formed teams, home care, geographical proximity, the presence of family or access to medication, avoiding therapeutic cruelty, is a public health priority absolutely relentless. The CDS will fight, too, in the next legislature, by adopting a good living will law, based on the proposal that we presented. 18. The general practice in the base system; a culture of compliance A health system focused on citizen has to ensure access while maintaining equity. To ensure this objective we propose suit the geographical locations of users of services, focusing on the citizen; identify areas of increased supply and increased demand, in order to relate them and ensure their management accordingly; ensure timely planning and strategic vision of human resources training, ensuring training in number and quality needed in the public sector, social or private education. The general practice must be the effective gateway into the healthcare system. It is up to primary health care to be the nerve center of the citizens' access to health care: preventive, curative, palliative and continuing. It is essential to generalize the entire population a Medical Assistant / family physician; It must continue the reform of Primary Health Care has already begun; It needs to ensure management teams for the health of families should take responsibility for their users, 24 hours a day, avoiding unnecessary use of emergency room. Primary Health Care has to be the engine of a systematic screening policy of population-based nationwide, for the types of cancer with the highest incidence: breast cancer, colorectal cancer, cervical cancer. Prevention is always better than any treatment. Thus, the CDS supports under the Primary Health Care, a clear focus on preventive medicine, such as anticipatory care (vaccines and screenings) and surveillance of vulnerable groups, including respiratory diseases, diabetes, hypertension, HIV, alcoholics. The level of primary health care is still necessary to articulate and integrate hospital and continuing care by creating patient-oriented struts / user to allow monitoring of all stages of the disease. For this purpose, the concept of replicate ULS; invest in specialized centers of reference, nationwide, for more specific situations, along with treatment centers on a closer logic; update the supply of hospital beds, adjusting it to the best practices of medicine and technological developments, taking into account the real needs of the population; replace hospitalization for ambulatory care whenever possible and differentiate acute care and continuum of care depending on the specific characteristics of the patient and in conjunction with local authorities, schools and IPSS. The CDS supports the maximum utilization of the installed features. It is unacceptable that, for lack of organization, are not leveraged and monetized all human and technical resources of either the SPA or of EPE It is unacceptable, for instance, that the hours of specialty consultations are not adequately fulfilled; or operating theaters have a utilization rate of noon. 19. Evaluate, ensure and reward CDS advocates developing a quality culture, encouraging their continuous improvement. For this we propose: to promote patient safety, increase efficiency and improve the effectiveness of care; ensure an accreditation system based on quality objectives and public standards and norms; in conjunction with the Medical, monitor compliance with quality standards, otherwise suitability of withdrawal. The CDS also promote the appropriate steps to greater freedom of choice, first among public units of the NHS. Healthy competition between providers and regulated decisively promotes the quality of services for citizens. It is necessary to enhance the features installed in the NHS and to promote freedom of choice between NHS units with a view to greater competitiveness. The set from contracting with the social and private sectors is one way forward - as abundantly proves the general agreement with the Mercies, for which the CDS fought and that can widen. To ensure the quality we also propose to set up, within the NHS, practice protocols and guidelines to improve the quality, speed and efficiency of diagnosis and treatment; set national targets for health outcomes in specific areas and provide for their effective evaluation; establish mechanisms for evaluation procedures and clinical outcomes in all health facilities, regardless of their nature, by linking the contracting compliance with the health gains; rewarding the institutions that achieve better results. 20. Ensuring transparency of the NHS The principle of transparency is one of the basic criteria of good governance. Now the NHS is a clear lack of reliable information, updated, properly treated and affordable. No system can be properly assessed and no steps can be taken seriously, without reliable information. So we will fight for an affordable information system providers and for which all units of the NHS and contracted contribute; the standardization of data processing; dematerialization more and better use of information and communication technologies; the mandatory publication of data by the entities and standardization of criteria (eg, ROR, waiting lists, service productivity, quality evaluation results, therapeutic prescriptions levels and MCDT); the establishment of a single electronic health record for each user, safeguarding measures protecting personal data; provide citizens with timely and reliable information regarding waiting times. It is also necessary, in accordance with Law 41/2007, of August 24, respect the obligation of the establishment of the NHS, with reference to the legal deadlines annually set their response times, which should included in the respective business plans and contratos- program and respect the information to users of all aspects of the response process service requested by family doctors. Under the same law, we want to ensure the publication in all health units of guaranteed response times and wait times actually produced and the observed response times, which have not been fulfilled. Financial management should be carefully evaluated. 21. Attention to demographics - measure the impact of family diplomas Putting families at the heart of public policy is not just about having a department or state supervision with the designation - Family. The interests of the families are transversal and are present in all ministries. So we return to any legislative initiative to be approved by the Council of Ministers has previously the "family seen", an assessment as to the impact it has on the family and demographic life. Even the most skeptical recognize that at a time of deep economic and social crisis the family is the last bulwark against exclusion and social cushion that often neither the state guarantees. MANIFESTO-Hood + CMY CM MY CY Separadores.pdf CMY K 6 5/11/13 7:51 PM Elevator social functioning 1. The right to get ahead through education and work The work and effort that make up the freedom of initiative are the most effective gateway to the progress and welfare. Only the effort may hold national decline and transform Portugal into a country of progress and growth. They are people, families and businesses they know, with your effort and work for the country to work. A country can only be dynamic, can only progress, grow economically and to combat social exclusion, when values ​​work and entrepreneurship, as reward merit and effort of each and when supports the just reward of labor. Today, in Portugal, widens the gap between those who have much and those who, despite having a job, can not leave the poverty line. Today, more and more Portuguese think, even after a lifetime of work, leave less to their children than they received from their parents. And these are the most evident marks of the social ladder, the possibility that one has to legitimately get ahead through education and work, is called into question. The dynamism that allowed us to grow in recent generations no longer exists, replaced by a social model in which the state knows only ask for taxes, ever more taxes and contributions to finance excessive spending, even if that sacrifice our economic growth , the confidence of those who invest and that this recession economy generates less tax revenue. 2. Education focused on students and families Quality education is achieved through an education system based on a public school with quality in contracting services and in competition with the private school and cooperative. It is essential to relate education to the labor market. On the other hand, does not take place in Portugal, due importance to families as principal and irreplaceable educational institutions. If they fail, it is very unlikely that any other institution come to their rescue. School education does not exempt family education. The main mechanism of the social elevator is education. Most Portuguese advocates a proper functioning of state schools. The requirement, rigor and merit must be the basis of the public school concept. The truth is that the Portuguese middle class often tries to obtain the means to be able to afford a private school, because he thinks there see defended the quality of education they want for their children. 3. Much more autonomy in public education in schools if they live today demotivation times. Intrinsically related to this motivation, a total centralism in decision-making, from the definition of the curriculum, the definition of school hours. Thus, the CDS vehement advocates strengthening the autonomy of schools for them to open up to different educational projects, provided that he is guaranteed an equivalent cost. So the system is not monolithic and single thought, it is essential to encourage the talent (and its professionalization) wherever you are. It will be given the possibility to schools as part of their autonomy in making their choices, curriculum and pedagogical point of view, obviously within limits. It is also within this range that the CDS advocates the creation of textbooks loan grants. The school autonomy is the condition of the identity of educational projects. The signing of autonomy agreements in public education stagnated. It is time to believe again in school autonomy. The CDS is in favor of a strong decentralization of educational powers to the municipalities actively involved in the educational community; however, we do not consider desirable that the authorities appoint school boards. 4. uncompromising defense of the teacher's authority If the family can not remain detached from education, school authority is the teacher, must be respected and valued. The teacher is the school face and that is why the management of the school should be held by a teacher, although it should not be elected only by teachers. The teacher's authority must be clearly defended the Statute of the Child, in which the CDS achieved some improvements. This Statute, which must have (and for years it has), a simple, clear and consistent language, you must ensure decisive values ​​such as attendance, punctuality, effort, merit, discipline, respect personal and property. 5. By requiring at school national examinations in the final round of the teaching and learning system that prevails among us - and lasts for far too long - is conceptually minimalist in demand. Maintains a process of "review" reducer and perverse. Evaluation should be a condition "sine qua non" in the whole education system: school directors, teachers, students, programs and textbooks. This review should become a regular practice, with objective and disseminated to the educational community, rewarding effort and the added value introduced. It should be noted that the assessment of students will be done through the introduction of national examinations at the end of education cycles, produced by the "question bank" system. We can not expect to have a culture of merit, demand, quality and rigor in society if these values ​​are absent from school. That's why they have to be the centerpiece of the education system. 6. Teachers: an evaluation inspired by the Private and Cooperative model was too long, lasted too long and had little success the conflict on the evaluation of teachers. The CDS want peace and demand in schools and is the only party that took over, head-on, who had an alternative assessment model, inspired in what is in effect on private and cooperative education, which was endorsed by employers and unions. This model has notable advantages. Does not disturb the school year: the evaluation document is delivered at the end of June. It is not bureaucratic, but it is demanding. The assessment is hierarchical - pedagogical direction - which prevents evaluator and evaluated compete with each other, or appraiser preparation shortcomings for discipline in concrete. The system has an arbitration in case of serious disagreement between the evaluator and the evaluated. It is completed before the start of the new school year and account for the career. The model is not decalcável but - as inspiration - is a good starting point for an issue that should be resolved early next Government, taking into account the various legal situations already considered. 7. More Portuguese and math, vocational education earlier has to be also made a curricular review, not primarily for financial reasons, but for resetting a content strategy that really prepare students for entry into the labor market. This should include curriculum on the 2nd and 3rd cycles of education, focusing student learning around a core structural disciplines; strengthening the load time of the disciplines of Portuguese and mathematics in primary education; B. c. d. and. f. g. i. CM MY CY CMY K 7 5/11/13 7:51 PM Justice is a priority We now have a law that is much more focused on their powers and counter-powers than actually in the answers it gives to citizens. A justice where there is not institutionally or responsibility or accountability. Today we have a justice where no one explains or clarifies many of the procedures. It discusses criminal justice much more than civil court, although this is the key to the functioning of the economy. The judicial system must be responsible and must be able to be held accountable for what he does and what does not and should do. Have to be responsible and have to be able to be held responsible for what happens and what does not happen and should happen. Faced with a system in which there is no accountability and no one is accountable, it must involve a sovereign body like the President. We have reached a point where you have to face bottlenecks in the justice system and give them appropriate response. We have reached a point where we can not help but look at the law that can help the economy. 1. A Justice responsible and accountable - more powers for the President Something has to change seriously in the organization of the judiciary. The CDS is front: the President should have more powers in the area of ​​justice, to blame. If the reinforcement of skills were the Government would rise doubts about the governmentalization Justice. When the ballot is done by AR rise repairs to partisanship. The President is a guarantor of independence. The CDS defend, based on constitutional review, the creation of the High Judicial Council to replace the existing Superior Council of Magistrates and the Superior Administrative and Fiscal Courts Council in order to strengthen public scrutiny of the sector. The appointment of the President of the new High Judicial Council shall be the responsibility of the President. The composition of this body should be rebalanced, with reinforcement of members appointed by the President. The President should also be able to appoint members of the Public Prosecution Council, with the sole aim: a more responsible and more accountable system. 2. Speed ​​of decision and effective justice that does not let the economy waiting CDS will propose strengthening the management of the courts, through the progressive institutionalization of the management of the courts, basing its action on criteria management and public accountability criteria . Also, it needs to plan technical advisors in the courts. It must give management the courts and allow judges can be freed of many paperwork in order, more efficiently and more quickly, apply the law to the specific case. In the same vein we propose the principle of procedural quota, by setting a target for placement of magistrates system in accordance with the number and type of cases pending in each county. 3. Problems exceptional, exceptional answers: a bag of judges to solve chronic delays CDS advance with the idea of ​​creating a rapid reaction judges grant to chronic delays and without justification, depending on the High Judicial Council, associated with a mechanism of computer alerts to enable rapid and effective intervention. 4. extreme limitation of magistrates on secondment outside the judiciary CDS will forward proposals to consecrate the very limited participation of judges in tours of duty outside the judiciary, in order to strengthen the response capacity of the judicial system. It makes no sense that more than 10 \% of all magistrates are placed outside the judiciary functions and outside the courts. 5. A new model: Simpler lawsuits, under forms and acts will propose the consecration of a new simplified procedural model, more flexible and more self-determination of the parties. We invest in deformalization procedures in the oral procedure, strengthening the role of the judge and limiting relevant procedural issues. Our contention is thus: a more streamlined process, more understandable by the parties and more effectively; joining process forms (3 to 1) or even enshrine procedural streamlining mechanisms (eg 4 articulated reduction for 2, generalization of the submission of pleadings by electronic forms, required sanitation by the parties); eliminate the preliminary hearing and allow, in certain specific situations, there may be exemption from instructory base; end the legal claims separately and assign the judge to define the proven facts and instructory base; create an automatic update mechanism of court heave. 6. Speed, clarity and effectiveness in judicial decisions: establish guidelines At the level of the sentences we want to invest in setting guidelines for the preparation of decisions clearly, quickly and effectively. 7. Give the judges effective control over processes We want greater control of the process by the judges (the unofficial declaration of nullity in the selection of disputed facts or even the assessment of evidence). 8. Solve simple problems that really hinder the courts - facilitate the transmission and prevent the postponement of hearings for lack of witnesses we propose that the cross reference to be made to the address of the Finance database - which guarantees the annual update - and deepen the principle that the postponement of hearings for lack of witnesses should be absolutely exceptional. 9. Enlarge Experimental Procedure Regime We support the commitment to extending the Experimental Procedure Scheme. Although with a very limited nature of the territorial point of view, we must continue to focus on this more simplified and faster procedures of law. 10. Defender flat careers is necessary to proceed with the reform of the judicial map, reviewing counties, and it is necessary to resort to more flexible mechanisms such as the figure of the aggregate judges. At the same time we want to bet on a flat career system, allowing the career development of a magistrate is not dependent on the hierarchical model of the courts. This commitment will enhance the responsiveness of the justice system and will obviously use the best skills of the most experienced judges in the courts that higher response present difficulties (in this case, the First Instance Courts). 11. Rating: priority to the enforcement process and the reliability of Citius move forward with the urgent evaluation of negative and positive consequences of the current model of enforcement procedures and make the necessary changes, particularly in terms of the legal regime of enforcement agents . The executive process remains one of the most problematic cases in our judicial system and is responsible for more than 65 \% of procedural disputes, where the average withdrawal period is longer than 36 months. Although the valuation point of view, it is urgent to assess the efficiency and safety systems of the Courts (Citius Citius Plus and AGIC). Can not subsist any questions about the reliability and safety of new IT systems of justice. 12. The Arbitration at the service of justice. A coherent model of alternative means to the network of the judiciary map will return the draft revision of the Arbitration Law, presented by CDS in the last parliament and will seek to ensure the timing of networks of Justice. We defend the consecration of the justices of the peace as a first response level of the justice system. The alternative media and the justices of the peace should be encouraged and should be an appropriate response to the resolution of a greater number of conflicts. In this context, it is urgent to adjust the network of alternative media and justices of the peace to the network of the judicial map. 13. A new training model for all legal operators. Understanding instead of chapels is urgent to revitalize the Judicial Training Centre as an entity aimed particularly at the initial training of the judiciary and for the further education of different operators of justice. We defend the consecration of a new model of education and professional preparation of legal operators by creating a common core of postgraduate training for all legal and forensic activities. It is necessary that the different legal professions understand the role that each assumes a court and to realize that it is the effort and cooperation of everyone who can get better service of Justice. This new approach should also reflect the scope of inspections and appraisals of individual justice officials. 14. Fighting corruption: means and laws Fighting corruption is to ensure the human and material resources which provide capable criminal investigation. The absence of means is evident, for example at the level of the cores of the cops examinations. In addition to this reinforcement means the CDS will propose: the improvement of the legal concept of urban crime, created by our initiative in the last Parliament; greater transparency in public contracts awarded on behalf of the state (central, regional and local), through its wholly publication of contracts and their additions in the Transparency Portal; the prohibition of the exercise of mayoral functions convicted in court, through the consecration of a new ineligibility for future elections and suspension functions when in the course of a given term. 15. Notaries - not defraud defend expectations charge in the review of the regulation of registry and notary and its status in order to ensure the existence and survival of the notary. The State must behave as a person of good and not disappoint the expectations created with the reform of legal services. Safety is a responsibility 16. Paying attention to growing insecurity We must deal frankly better the safety of persons. It is one of the priorities of state. Live in freedom is the first of the rights of an economically developed society, socially just and quality of life. Unfortunately, in recent years, insecurity has become a major concern of the Portuguese. Indeed, the past three years, crime has reached worrying levels, especially in the aspect of violent crimes. Successive responsible for safety warnings, warning of the danger of having lawless territories in our country and a tendency to constitute phenomena of "ghettoisation" around large metropolitan areas of Lisbon, Porto and Setúbal. The trivialization of violence and lack of authority today leaves many Portuguese uneasy. It is incomprehensible that criminals arrested in flagrante delicto be judged quickly; it is incomprehensible that police officers risk their lives and the next day see criminals go free, escape and reoffend. Too many Portuguese are wondering why the government left the areas where they live with less patrolling and why, when they are victims of a robbery and go to the police station, they hear that there is nothing to do. It is therefore important in this respect speak clearly, act decisively and take focused commitments that are tributaries of cohesion and the necessary pacification of the forces and security services who have suffered so much distrust, irresponsibility and lack of motivation in recent years. The CDS paradigm in this area is very different from other Parties: based on a firm security policy, blaming the perpetrator, the victim support and help and frees the company of too much violence. Therefore, the aim is a security policy "safe" to develop, strengthen and enhances the skills of men and women who are part of them and not "experimentalism". 17. A MAI with extended authority is a sine qua non of a security policy As the CDS warned in 2009, is no longer extendable an organizational model of the Security Forces and services too dispersed and weak coordination. As we said, the CDS has not conceptually opposed to a single tutelage of the Security Forces and Services model that exists in other countries and not to be confused with single police. The debate can and should be done in this legislative term. However, a pragmatic vision, who knows the urgent need for better security policy, we reaffirm that the minimum threshold for a coherent and effective policy is to give the actual MAI supervisory power over criminal policy, criminal procedure, sentencing and prison. Without this, there is no security policy to "hold on" the contradiction between the police mission and overly garantística configuration of penal policy and its consequences. On the other hand, this minimum level should include a simple and practical reform of the Higher Internal Security Council, giving it a certain permanency, under the authority of MAI and obligations to ensure cooperation and coordination between forces and services, sharing information and if necessary tactical steering severe occurrences in particular, whose type should be defined by law. We also advocate an organic revision that eliminates Directions duplicating functions; the Secretary General of the MAI should centralize the skills to manage logistical matters, administrative, IT, infrastructure, public and international relations, and communications forces and security services, freeing staff for operational tasks and gaining efficiency in spending . 18. Ensure the renewal of police personnel Safety is not compaginável with not replacing staff. Strengthen proximity patrolling is only possible with the release of ancillary functions - can both GNR as the PSP - and with stable annual competitions, to ensure effective improvement of the device. We propose a consensus to be quickly open a new competition in the security forces and recover, at least partially, the deficit accumulated agents in recent years; the establishment of the principle of annual competitions based on objective assessment of retirements and needs; changing the Programming Law Forces and Security Services, its provisions and funding arrangements, and devise a plan to ten years of recovery and reconstruction of police stations and barracks of forces and needy security services; On the other hand, we must strengthen the criminal investigation, particularly in the areas of forensic and expert PJ, according to the average outputs in recent years; reach a consensus on the remuneration regime of the security forces, extinguishing loose and subjective criteria when determining the amount thereof; allow new formulas boosting productivity, and streamline internal mobility, according to the needs of each force and security service and intensify the training and refresher courses, creating a common core training; pay much attention to the SEF, pressure of time for the review of the "Schengen Agreement", strengthen border controls and step up the participation of the SEF in FRONTEX and international organizations, especially in the Mediterranean, where Portugal is inserted. 19. Release the Police that bureaucracy is the Device revision of the Security Forces and Services you need to give top priority to the operation thereof. We will have special regard to better distribution of the military of the GNR, still concentrated in Lisbon, and the actual release of the security forces agents notoriously others and bureaucratic tasks, examples of which are notifications, seizures and seizures with evaluation of low risk or inquiries the financial position of defendants. Least of these tasks mean more police available for safety 20. A special response to the urgent problem: insecurity in the metropolitan areas is necessary to give special importance to the very serious staff shortage in the metropolitan areas of Lisbon, Porto and Setúbal, through secondment significant number of new elements to the municipalities of these areas; ensure the participation of the Special Bodies of PSP and GNR in patrolling the neighborhoods identified by the security forces as being problematic; create Prevention of Operating Groups (GOP) and act in neighborhoods considered at risk under tactics of CSSI direction, composed of elements of the SIS, PJ, GNR, PSP and SEF in order to identify, prevent and suppress serious urban violence incidents. We will not leave the abandonment, insecurity, people living in difficult districts of metropolitan areas. 21. Snap judgments, of course! The CDS is committed, in 2011, the focadamente review the Criminal Procedure Code, namely: making the summary procedure in the system rule in the case of arrested in flagrante delicto, in any case, creating a specific grant of judges for end; resuming the application of the rule of preventive detention for crimes with imprisonment exceeding three years; enhancing the standing of victims in criminal proceedings, establishing new rights of information, support and intervention in the process; admitting the constitution as assistant to the Ministry of the Interior, with the consent of the victim or the family in cases of offenses against the life or physical integrity of members of the security forces and services. 22. Criminal laws: a firmer position and realistic in execution of sentences, recidivism and parole CDS will also propose amendments to the Criminal Code and the supplementary legislation to: to tighten the regime of conditional release, making rule the subsidy only after serving two-thirds of the sentence, three-quarters of the serious and violent crime and preventing its concession in intentional crimes, and for repeat offenders, with applicable penalty more than 15 years. We will strengthen supervision of so-called precarious outputs of prisoners, preventing them from granting prisoners convicted of violent crimes or repeat offenders and, when granted, making mandatory the use of electronic surveillance means; aggravate, in cases of violent crime, for 3/4 the minimum sentence that must be fulfilled by making general rule compliance 2/3 penalty (currently, only half); review the Guardianship of Minors Act, providing greater accuracy and exceptional nature to open and semi-open regimes and at the same time, extending the cases that could be applied to the closed regime, including, in exceptional and duly justified cases. 23. targeted responses that improve the safety and reliability CDS guarantees attention to information services and its material and human resources. We will introduce police mediation, starting with the most troubled neighborhoods, with a view to greater trust and closeness between the police and citizens in crime prevention. We proceed to a study, nationwide, to evaluate the sites considered to be potentially dangerous for the installation of video surveillance cameras. But evaluate is also important. The Parliament should review annually the results of public action programs and social integration in the troubled neighborhoods of metropolitan areas, particularly in the areas of education, housing, employment and substance abuse - we will encourage the realization of agreements with local authorities, the IPSS, charitable institutions and non-governmental organizations supporting young people considered potentially at risk, investing in specific programs of leisure time. 24. A sustainable model for firefighters CDS will not fail to consider the best model for the work of firefighters. We promote a sustainable financing model of the Fire Stations and make evaluating the existing device, taking into account the needs, characteristics and risks of each district in an integrated and complementary way. We must clarify from the point of view of prevention and the various levels of operational interventions, the skills of GIPS and the various bodies of Voluntary Firemen or mixed regime. 25. Road Safety - prevent, rehabilitate and supervise Resume integrated and coordinated actions of the National Road Safety Plan, investing in areas of prevention, with the completion of planned campaigns and targeted treatment of road environment, with the standardization of good practices in the construction and rehabilitation of the road network, and in the inspection area, with specific actions and missions in patrolling and traffic management. In all state functions, CDS was, is and will always be a consensual party, responsible and especially attentive to the dignity that we give to the Portuguese State situation. The public has been able to verify the importance and responsibility with which the CDS fought over the years, the issues of diplomacy, defense, justice and security. Other parties are not so attentive nor responsible in these areas undeniable presence of state. The Portuguese Armed Forces are inextricably linked to the identity of the country. We must, as far as financial possibilities, having presence in international missions in which, as allies in the endeavor; have an important presence in the military-technical cooperation with the PALOP; admit the rationalization of staff in times of crisis, but also realize the importance of the contract arrangements with the armed forces in the absorption of youth unemployment; understand that the essence of military re-equipment is in progress, and meet the priority programs on new decisions; admit, even for the purpose of revenue, the sale of material, of which the most significant example is one of the F-16 squadrons; accelerate the efficient management of the assets in place to obtain resources; never forget, and insist on their dignity, the Disabled of the Armed Forces and Veterans; More ennoble the military in the public interest missions and make it visible, with respect for safety standards, the work of the military in favor of the national interest and community.
