WEALTH OF PARAGUAY
It is in its people
10 keys to advance
GOVERNMENT PROGRAM 2013 - 2018
[ 1 ]

[ 2 ]

[ 3 ]

[ 4 ]

Presentation
Compatriots, put the proposal for consideration of the Coalition Avanza Country on the main actions of government I take
later when the President is elected by the Paraguayan people for
the period 2013-2018. Delivery of this assertion, with great confidence
and commitment.
These proposals were developed during a consultative process,
began just expressed my decision to exercise the civic obligation to contribute to the consolidation of democracy in our
country, leaving behind the comforts of my everyday life to embrace as their own the causes which stem from the non-realization
any right.
The development of the Plan of Government took an unexpected boost after
the parliamentary coup that broke the social contract between
the State and society, sustained momentum in the selfless contribution of professionals and activists for human rights
were, in most cases, depending on government and that
They came to the conclusion to provide their experience, starting from
a critical analysis of management as of August 2008, based on
plans, programs and strategies implemented, the analysis of

[ 5 ]

difficulties and identify what should deepen innovate or
improve to reach the ultimate goal of living in a country with less
inequalities, where a life of quality is no longer a utopia, a
dream, an unreachable horizon to become a reality
that everyone can enjoy.
The program content implicit in the Government Plan is based
the pillars of universality, equality and active participation; focusing on people and the full recognition of their rights and aims at sustainable development in the territories where people
live through a national system of social protection supported by an economic model, which not only seek growth but
that promotes the production of a better distribution of wealth.
My intention and Avanza Country Team, is to govern for all and
all those who inhabit the country, paving the way for
reduce migration and encourage the return of compatriots, without distinction of creed, ideology or political and party affiliations, convinced that Paraguay's wealth is its people and the State
You should invest in each of us / as ensuring full access
our rights to live worthwhile lives.
I am as you see me, an ordinary citizen and I can not give me the great
task of recovering our democratic state without your support, strength
your arms and the strength of your convictions.
The invitation is made!

Mario Ferreiro
[6]

CONTENTS
Introduction ................................................. .............................................. p. 9
Moving toward Universal Health Protection ................................. p. 18
Free moving towards quality education .................................. p.30
Moving towards the creation of decent work .................................. p.40
Move towards a Comprehensive Agrarian Reform ............................................ ... p.50
Moving towards adequate shelter for all and all ............................... p.64
Moving towards greater public safety ..................................... p.74
Moving towards real instances
.............................................. Citizen participation ..................... p.86
Moving towards a system of fair and progressive tax .................. p.96
Moving towards an efficient public administration .............................. p.108
Moving toward a constitutional reform ........................................... p. 120
Thanks ................................................. ...................................... p.144

[7]

[8]

INTRODUCTION
The proposal for a government program is a serious and challenging undertaking for those who apply to be honest and Government committed
intends to respond to the needs and hopes of an entire people.
A qualified proposal and put for discussion with citizens can
politicize the electoral debate and is a key step in positioning the content
above electoral marketing, which empty of meaning and truth elections around the world and seeks to bring the victory of who has more money
and not who is best proposals to address problems
Nation and its peoples.
A government program guided by a concept of political democracy
as commitment to social justice, which it should be understood as a
True democracy involves a high degree of responsibility for
bet to win the hearts and minds from a social imaginary
future, which itself is frustrated, mean disappointment and setback.
Aware of this level of historical responsibility is to affirm that
This government program is not just to win an election, it is to begin now to build the Solidary Society we want; to build a fair and transparent state that we need; to build a future
room for all and all with the same dignity as subjects of law
and they deserve to have because they are human, because everything is human rights.
In the days running, dominated by neoliberal fundamentalism, it is
the economy as if it were an end in itself, not knowing that the economy is
a moral science which serves to give dignity to humans from
[9]

rational use of finite resources and economic policy we claim,
worries about production but also, more emphatically, distribution and redistribution of wealth production generates.
So this government program, truly democratic, it is proposed not miss a single second of the people, the people who have to
be at the center of all its chapters as it is laden with commitments to social justice, the dignity of Paraguay, Paraguayan
and those who inhabit every corner of the country.
First it comes as the awareness that they need more and
poor people, are those who first feel the result of government action, but also encourages us intend to make all
the members of the public are protected and promoted by policies
public; all formal and informal workers are recognized and
protected from exploitation of their work; that all children and
all adults and elderly are assisted in their rights as
any man or woman in the country and ensure their rights to study,
having income and food, housing and transportation have to have water and sanitation,
have ethnic, cultural, social and gender identity, as citizens in
Real democracy is inclusive of an entire people, which is recognized in the
policies and public services for real democracy in all the
"What to do" without exclusions State responds to the needs of
the population, seeking to create the means to achieve its full
answers and sustain over time.
So the economy to serve the people must strengthen employment
Formal and purchasing power of wages has to generate resources
social contributions and taxes fully finance the
public services and that they end up defining the quality and extent of
private services disputing that all Paraguayans superior quality and
Paraguayan deserve.
[10]

So this government program claimed as tax justice
a fundamental principle to make possible a new society, and not the
market health, education, transport and housing, but of
public services and high quality goods that meet the dignity of life
by public regulation of property without eliminating the private sector
but it is establishing the principle that the private sector can not take back public commitments to have. We affirm that the
need to de-privatize the state and do in fact staunch advocate
interests and public goods.
Therefore the state must be permanently under control
society through participatory democracy where people participate,
mainly through the free expression of their desires and needs
and transform this representation of the problems of their lives in the input
key decisions and government planning, since from the social areas where people live and work, you can build a sense of
economic life and social protections that dignify populations
and give meaning to "do" state.
This is what he covets the proposal of a National Participatory Planning and Budgeting, which could lead to the agendas
decision of the actions and the use of state resources, needs
felt people in each territory and allow so people decide in
together with his peers and the Government, and immediately control the use of resources and the impact and quality of actions. This will be how to respond
social needs, but it will not be a depoliticized and appropriate forms
the limits of resources but rather oriented planning
participatory strategic point to generate the resources as missing
and look beyond the boundaries of each social territory, resources
They depend on tax changes, devolution of property
land, fair distribution of resources according to the needs and inequities
suffering populations.
[ eleven ]

This territorially participation covering the whole Paraguay enable the
people the chance to reform the constitution and guarantee that its decisions really affect the use of public resources to meet
emergencies that affect an entire people and they need an executive,
Parliament and the judiciary in line for the public good.
The commitment to a caring society with a high social and human development, with a deep respect for human rights and the rights of the
nature, a decent quality of life, good living material, social and
spirit of the nation and its peoples, the virtuous combination of Demand
production with distribution of the wealth produced in conjunction with the construction of a universal social protection system that redistributes
and accumulated wealth, forming a virtuous triangle to guide the direction
the development of Paraguay.
Understand that this proposal seeks not to harm those who have achieved
honestly their well-being equipment, or those that over a lifetime
patrimonial sacrifices reach comfort, is establishing itself as
They did the mature democracies, illicit enrichment prohibitions
research and what does not recognize the public interest and is likewise
establish fair taxation system where it is returned as well
universal high-quality public services.
For production distribution can understand all economic activity
distribute wealth through progressive taxation of wages protected in their
purchasing power, access to property, economic security through employment protection against unemployment, universal pension transfers
direct money to guarantee minimum income of dignity and inclusion in the
consumer market to strengthen the domestic market.
From this perspective it earns huge relief support to entrepreneurship
through technical training, public credits and incentives to cooperativized forms of production, employment gain relief policies aimed at
[12]

most economically depressed through a job search areas
better quality, from the perspective of decent work merely by avoiding the use of low-paid occupations and no social protection; earn
building important nurseries and shelters for the elderly and
people with loss of autonomy so that families can then
produce and especially women to enter the labor market
requiring quiet and not be burdened by home care
the limits on their education and employment.
Support for the multiplication of small and medium enterprises, as well as
family farming involves the possibility of incorporating young people
enter the labor market and adults who are unemployed, just
so the protection of labor and rising wages in GDP are central to distribute wealth originated production and field
extend non-contributory pensions to all workers age
Retirement would be a way to combat rural poverty and expand access
Consumer improving the material condition of life and avoiding rural exodus.
A universal system of social protection means a bet that is also expanding employment, qualified by income and by
professional tender for new work teams
State, reaching a level of charges, careers and salaries that dignifies the
public service and reach high levels of quality and coverage, with dedication
exclusively to public service and increased productivity. Work protection
and wages, the right to pensions and social assistance as rights,
add to the universal right to health, education, water and sanitation,
housing, public transport, energy, public safety and
justice, among other human rights that characterize civil security
Free expression policy, organization and participation, coupled with economic security

[13]

Because we want a profound transformation of the country, a truly democratic revolution that not only rescue the dignity of politics as a tool for social change, but also to place the economy at the service of
people and generate tax justice through the enjoyment of the protections
universal social all full citizens in a democracy want and what
warrants. Recalling that the strongest democracies in the world and solidarity
built their way through and for the well being of their peoples and the
most critical times in its history opted for the well being of their own
before granting any benefits to capital.
It's time to conquer a real social democracy in Paraguay.
You choose "Avanza País" through voting, allow the conquest of our full
citizenship for all and all can live with dignity!

[14]

[ fifteen ]

[16]

[17]

MOVING TOWARDS

UNIVERSAL PROTECTION

OF THE HEALTH

[18]

L

to defend the health of the people is a
duty of all governments, because it is one of
inalienable human rights must
ensured throughout the Republic. For Avanza
Country Health is an integrating force policy
social which ensures quality
dignified life throughout the country.

We have to defend health as a public good, therefore its expression must be in the form of
State services, and if one is offered as private services must, first,
ordered to defend the public interest and
protection of life beyond any other
interest.

[19]

Understanding Health as part of a Universal Social Protection System where
It highlights many other rights such as education, labor and wages, the right to
pensions and social assistance, the right to
land, public safety, transportation, the
housing, identity, healthy environment,
in order to exercise worthy of all the rights recognized in the Universal Declaration of
Human Rights, is to understand Health
as belonging to the construction of
Dignified Life for All People.
But for this to happen, it is necessary that the
defense of health as a human right
concrete from these four principles:

parentar and streamline the State in its
the guarantor of rights and at the same
time to build a citizenry empowered in their status as subjects of rights).
From the practical application of these 4 principles, the first major step should be to establish a genuine National Health System,
allowing to work together
and harmonious public statements in defense of health in the country: The Ministry of Health, Social Welfare Institute, Hospital
Clinics, DIBEN, etc .; coordinating action
daily centrally and locally, in order to be able to offer citizens a response
comprehensive and complete their urgent needs
in terms of prevention and active defense
Effective health and quality of life for all
citizens.



1.

Universality of the right (ie it
ensure the health of everyone, without any distinctions);

2.

Installed the National Health System, its acIntegralidad in responses (for
tion, at national and local level, will be addressed
each person receives according to their actual nehacia the realization of the following objectives:
cesidades);
•• Establish a program of comprehensive care and
Equity as a principle of justice (for
Free health treatment targeting the entire
that everyone can enjoy the best
population, without intermediaries, without discriminacalidad of life and of health);
tion, eliminating all barriers to access
every citizen (poor or rich) can be
Active participation (for which trabeneficiado by it.
VES of the decision-making, vigilant and construction of all action and all possible trans- •• articulate, coordinate and supplement actions



3.


Four.


[ 20 ]of all levels to serve on the
NHS so to install a single system that integrates health
all the infrastructure and all resources
available.
•• Keep autarky condition of IPS,
strengthening the system of "collective solidarity capitalization" and promoting access to
Provisional Social Security System as
mode oriented public pension
its universalization in the medium term.
To achieve the above objectives, meanwhile, a number of concrete actions will be promoted
noted below:
•• Adoption of a Strategy to Promote
Equity in Quality of Life and Health,
promote a comprehensive social approach
health, and assess responses to the actual needs of the people and not be limited
to offer services from the government, prompting a Comprehensive Plan of Local Sustainable Human Development, in every community and
it also boost a system of care
the health of all people throughout
all his life, to avoid permanently
unnecessary suffering, disease and
avoidable deaths.
•• Promotion Strategy is projected
[ 21 ]

sectoral manner, ie in all political •• Promote the active participation of
Government so as to affect form
citizenship as a factor of social control
deep social determinants of health
and transparency in the supply of services
through territorial health advices
represented by sanitation, housing, food, work,
quality of life and sustainable development
transport, security and environmental health -
communities, municipalities, governorates,
to the national level, composing thus a
protection against pesticides and exhibitions
general environmental federation not only of active participation deteriológica
planning and budgeting
ran the condition of the environment but
also they affect and destroy human life.
State's actions as a bid to
put in the center of the governmental action

[22]

as the answer to human rights are
economic, social, cultural, civil or political, and while a bet on a politically empowered and active citizenship in
overcoming the challenges for the construction of a true social democracy
Paraguay.

proper and immediate start to every problem
Health detected either access to medicines or hospital patient
the intensive care unit of a hospital. For this
installation and operation is expected
at least 1,875 local care teams
family health, dental equipment 937
territorial, 125 specialized clinics
for outpatient care and hospital system with one bed for every 1,000 effective
inhabitants, of which 600 must be
intensive therapy. This whole system is
accompanied by a regulated structure
urgent care complemented by a
110 system ambulances basic life support and advanced support 35 ambulances covering the entire country.

•• to promote territorial Decentralization
popular participation and decision management
health services, through regional councils. Thus, through
direct user empowerment be possible to control locally quality
offered services and their consistency with
actual needs of the territory, so that the system is constantly
monitored and can be improved so
permanently through daily action con- •• Accompany the primary care system
Board of public authorities and the Health ciuen nationally with a number of
zens rights holders.
Additional support structures
health care, such as network asis •• Strengthen Primatencia pharmacological care system, for provision / distriria Health (APS) through the installation of
bution of medicines and supplies; redde
a national network of protection cucentros rehabilitation for discapacibra entire country and allow a
physical, neurological and sensory ties; net
constant and continuous monitoring of each
diagnostic analysis labociudad support, neighborhood, village and country company.
tory, radiography, ultrasound, other; network
This makes it possible to leverage
Health Surveillance, Control epidemiolóacción for preventive to reduce the occurrence
logical, and environmental health.
disease and provide a response

[ 2. 3 ]

[24]

•• Promote strategic actions plans •• Check the quality of training through
Certification of schools targeted to health formaatención específicamención health.
you needs related to each
age group: childhood, youth, adulthood
(With specific attention for men and women The cost of the overall reform of the health system
we are proposing is much lower than
res), seniors.
you can believe.
The proposed action can not be achieved by
It is in effect effectively add acumumanera form if it is not accompanied by a aclativa each year the annual health budget
tion dignity of work and should work it sum of 75 million USD, ie slightly
ers of health, this will be achieved through
more than $ 12 per citizen and ciudalas following measures:
dana of Paraguay; •• 50,000 per year per workload establish equivalence between sona and finally allow the installation and Gs
remuneration, dedicated to the maintenance of a health system really
dedication and stimulating economically efficient and comprehensive, so that would guarantee
effective and permanent health, and therefore the Cael work inside the country.
ity of life of the entire population of Paraguay.
•• Create participatory management systems in
You have to understand the health sector as a source of
services.
economic development, where a public system
•• Encourage national contests technical capabilities of health is driving employment, salapara define the direction of services.
rios, professional qualification, industrial development
and services, and further integration factor
•• Access via the national territorial contest utility and driver of development re •• Provide continuing education and access to regional, occupying the territory of calificacapacitaciones form or specializations for total giving. All this means strategic investment
in the health sector and building space
two health workers.
and guarantee citizens' rights, while
•• Ensuring social security for the worker essential factor in economic and social development.
ers health (via IPS).

[25]

[26]

[27]

[28]

[29]

MOVING TOWARDS

FREE EDUCATION

AND QUALITY

[30]

C

A s we understand human development
process that provides, on the one hand, improving the living conditions of the
citizenship through the acquisition of goods
and services that enable them to meet their basic and complementary needs, and secondly,
State action, which acts to ensure

the full implementation of human rights
all. We believe that education,
It is both a human right as well
essential public is the central element,
that adequately guarantees materialize
best human development for every citizen.

[31]

The right to free and quality education without
exclusion and discrimination of girls / boys, young and old / os, which in turn means access
local, regional and universal culture, essential
to exercise all other rights, whether civil, political, social, cultural, economic, is
then becomes the center action key
a government that aims primarily to citizen welfare, because the characteristics
indicated its momentum allows the integral development, the exercise of civil liberties,
realization of life projects, as mandated
universal and equal, without differences of social, geographical, gender, ethnicity,
religion.

gable and inalienable, to create new and better
conditions for an education is provided
quality public as part of a system
social, universal, equal and inclusive protection, you see the active participation of
all citizens.
The education we envision is what I expected
an educational system based on the following
principles:
Universality: to ensure the exercise of the right to quality education for all
people living in our country; since
access, retention and completion
timely schooling to higher education.

A policy of putting education at the center of the
Government action represents a determined bet with equity Egalitarianism: recognize
cidida the country we want and we can do
every human being as equal, assuming the
possible; a country that puts the center of his future
diversity in their capacity as such,
social, productive, national, a
without discrimination for it; and providing
sustainable environment; on claiming by
educational offers different things according to netodas welfare of the entire population,
cesidades, equal and EQUIA through a universal system of protection
preparation opportunities.
social and economy at the service of social protection and dere Comprehensiveness: conceive
human rights.
the human being as a whole, a unit Eat From this vision, our action aims at
plex, which requires multiple answers to your
regain the right to education in the conmúltiples needs; and the state, as each citizen resciencia / or our country,
sible for ensuring safety and security
to ensure full exercise of the same, and
involving social welfare, quality
a state to assume its responsibility, indelible [32]

of life and the full exercise of all human rights and all; so it can respond
hands intentionally, global and trans- effectively to the needs and expectations so
of each economic, social and cultural context
sectorally.
territory.
Active participation: enable the
citizens and the citizens of a community but should not be construed as noted exdad to influence an active part in making exclusively as a good purpose or prodecisiones; monitoring, demanding and Eve empty table for the future; but rather must
Luando governance as par- seen as the concrete basis for action through
ticipating directly to the transformation of which generate a substantial change in the sislas living conditions of the community of the issue of public education in Paraguay, something
they are part. In par- school management that we make impulsancipación specifically means the chance for a do implement the following measures:
community to define the pedagogical model and •• Breaking with the relevant prebendarista and clieneducativo system that is vistelista current point in the educational system,
ta curricular and socially relevant to your
corrupts educational activities, relationships
community.
social and community based interests
personal, private and sector; this
the race will be achieved encouraging teachers and administrative staff,
way to ensure the institutionalization of
organizational and training processes thus ensuring the sustainability
State policies.

Solidarity and regional integration: from education to contribute to regional integration, agreeing and implementing educational policies that promote regional citizenship,
a culture of peace and respect for democracy, human rights and the environment; severally.
Based on the principles outlined our
promote action to ensure conditions for
the fact that an effective universal access to education, timely completion, becomes the
improving its quality and efficiency and fairness and equal opportunity and treatment for

•• Overcoming all policies and programs of exclusive targeting, which are only aimed at certain social groups and / or specific needs, leaving uncovered other
sectors and issues, contravening
so the principle of universality.

[33]

•• Implement the reorganization of educational areas and educational supervision as axes
articulators of education policy through
which offers services all
and levels of the education system
They managed territorially and complimentary arrive ••
rectly to the targeted people.
•• Promote protagonist and citizen participation from the educational areas where the
school, center of community action,
It is at the core of local development,
participatory and community management committed to the interests of everyone, without
exclusions, capable of generating changes in the school and in the community.

-operation with the health system, so
in addition to places of educational stimulus
They are transformed into structures and care
child protection. First National Plan
Children.
Effectively guarantee free of
Superior to early education, elementary, secondary and
0 through tariff and resource transfers to public educational institutions
and finally removing the "voluntary contribution" of families; provide increasingly broad basic baskets of useful
school, promoting a sustainable school feeding program at all levels
and areas so well to finally eradicate education spending in the economy
family.

•• Ensure improving learning environments through the creation of
physical, material, technological •• ensure continuity throughout the period of compulsory education (primary and secondary)
for institutional and community development;
of all students, also driving
providing infrastructure grants equipamienun vital system (ie cat, materials, technology for students
rantizan daily maintenance to benefide all levels and types of sisteciarios), allowing the most needy
ma; in all school buildings in the country
complete their studies without leaving
inclusion criteria,
school to work.
•• To promote the early entry of children and
girls in the education system, strengthening •• Develop a policy of initial and
Continuous teachers, principals and preschool supervisiolas structures and Gardens
infants, seeking development by
tion of all educational levels and modalities related to the teaching profession. Install
local public sector (Municipalities), in co [34]

•• highly interdisciplinary technical teams ensure a University System of Higher Education and free access and accompanying action cacalificados pedalidad of teaching and research;
gogical management at the departmental level, zonal
where public university quadruple over
Local and specifically the task of teaching
classroom ensuring implementation
the next five years its offer of enrollment in
courses (to return to cover at least the
curriculum quality and relevance.
50% of university enrollment, as
•• Promote a reform of secondary education
today covers only 19%), and set center
technical for more educational activities AMSU become not only teaching but
Plia and adherent to the needs of scientific research territambién and
Thorium where you are, and get a creocurre worldwide. In this way it will be
General foundation and constant training
forming a faculty may not
technique enabling young people to acquire
is limited only to teach what they have learned,
useful knowledge to pursue careers
but research can produce new
working professionals to conclude his career
knowledge, thus improving conseducativa form,
stantly university educational quality.

[35]

[36]

[37]

[38]

[39]

MOVING TOWARDS

GENERATION

DECENT WORK

[40]

P

araguay bases its economy mainly
on the export of primary products or
with little value added (soy, beef); that's the first reason in the country
not created enough jobs for all, and
You can solve the problems inherent in the

large number of workers employed in the informal sector, and high levels
Open unemployment and underemployment,
and the persistence of child labor. For the
It is therefore necessary to gradually changing the productive matrix.

[41]

Paraguay soybean can not live (or beef) and need tending towards a progressive
industrialization and a real development
the country's service sector, which will create more
employment more stable and permanent.
No doubt this will be achieved partly driving
foreign direct investment (FDI), regulating it,
so you do not damage our environment and conducive to the start of a process of social cohesion
in the country.

services, to be able to support and sustain
Policy creation of new companies and
therefore new jobs; primarily to support new ventures and new young
entrepreneurs with great ideas and few resources
own.

Through this new investment policy
loans from public sources, not only
create formal, stable job, but will allow many young people with good ideas, implement them, building a new empresaSin however, large investments resolved
tariat young, modern, formal and open to the world.
only a small part of the problem of
Unemployment, as are small and medium Indeed public banking is the only instrunas companies that most amount of effort to promote industrialization ment positions and
create work in both developing countries development in a country, evidenced by the banks
as in developed countries. Currently public of Brazil (Banco do Brasil, BNDES) and
in Paraguay, almost 70 percent of whom work Argentina (Banco Nacion Argentina) that explobajan in the formal sector, companies do tar on the international economic crisis in 2008
They could avoid massive layoffs
less than 20 workers.
providing cheap loans to companies
Therefore, we must seek support these pequey thus sustaining the economy of their countries. Alone
small and medium investments fordesde boosting its public finance sector may promalización (also of labor relations)
provide loans to businesses rates
and supporting them through the installation of a
low and acceptable interest; the private sector
cheap credit system and simple and quick
It prefers to invest exclusively in consumption,
obtaining.
where you can profit from higher interest rates.
This will be achieved by strengthening the pews of deOtro important element that must be impulsarrollos active in the country (mainly AFD and
sar is productive complementation with
BNF) or promoting the formation of a nuepaíses neighbors; this to avoid competition
vo credit agency industry and
[42]

with them in the national and international markets
to encourage job creation in our
country. To understand the importance of this issue
is sufficient to cite a classic example: a
bicycle factory. Suppose that in Paraguay produce the seats and handlebars
same, while the Brazilians produce
structure, Argentine rays and tires
and Uruguayan cameras and the gums
wheel. All our efforts and participate
production quality to a single product whose quality will allow them to become sold throughout the
world. But to make this possible, the integration of Paraguay in MERCOSUR should be
this depth being a key priority of our foreign policy.
One more chance for growth
Paraguay will be the construction of the new line
500 KV. The adviser to the president of Brazil,
Marco Aurelio Garcia, has publicly told
Le Monde Diplomatique magazine virtually behind every column that extension
Power will be a Brazilian investment to come to Paraguay. The decision of the Brazilians
It can be unilateral on the type of investment
come, but Brazil's interest to invest in Paraguay is real and we must use this opportunity to negotiate with them
types of investments we need according to
Country we want.

A strong economy is not built only with
domestic and foreign investment. It's necessary
also strengthen the internal market, ie the
per Paraguayan possibility to acquire more property, whether: clothing, appliances, vehicles, furniture, etc.
To this we must formalize the work, which
will mean better wages and social guarantees
for all.
It is true that pay better wages and incorporate
IPS to the workers and employees will become more expensive for companies, but the worker who earns more, spend more, and that means
It will be necessary to produce more things for
workers can acquire, and that will make
companies produce and sell more, new
enterprises are born, more job opportunities
they think and finally to reach the entrepreneurs earn more despite having spent more.
This simple policy which brought Argentina and
Uruguay the crisis of 2000 and saved in 2008 to
Brazil international economic crisis.
To make all this possible, it is necessary that
the State has a greater role in life
economic of the country and that will be possible only if
It has sufficient financial resources
to get it. This means expanding the inputs accordingly, at least reality
our neighbors, raising taxes and
seriously fighting tax evasion and tax avoidance.

[43]

Finally the state policy Generation
Employment can not be divorced from the type of
work that is to be created. When you are speaking of
Decent Work (or dignified work) means the
work where they are guaranteed all labor and union rights for those who work,
even social security.
The policy of decent work and decent work (s
ie jobs with wages at or above
legal minimum enrollment IPS, paid vacations, schedules within the limits
by law, etc.) has proven to be economically
profitable and socially necessary.

And when we speak of decent work for all, it is also understood to young people. Is not
acceptable under the pretext that young
They need jobs are phased
their labor and wage rights; Young
They should have the same rights as any
another worker and not be exploited because of their
age.

As for social security, in addition to
be recognized by the United Nations Human Right is a tool to fight poverty and exclusion, it must govern for
all. The tax system of the three parts
(Employers, workers and the State) should be
In Uruguay, for example, when in 2005 the
strengthened.
Broad Front took office the country was
in a deep economic crisis. Instead of re With respect to occupational accidents, according
cutting wages, the new government boosted the ISSO (Ibero-American and decreed mandatory collective Segurinegociaciones Social dad), 30 in Latin America occur wage milloajustes giving back dynamism tions of occupational accidents annually and 2 trabajaal domestic market and allowed ers that reduce die every minute. We must strengthen
unemployment significantly. The fact rec- inspection in the areas of health and safety.
nocer rights of workers does not just unhealthy trabaafectó declare the local foreign investment, which increased more for workers jo charge more, as
mistakenly some unions want. A
never.
life, a foot, a hand, a kidney, are priceless.
In our country ensure decent work for
We must force the company, whether this is the task pritodos the Vice Ministry of Labour,
vada or state, solve the unsanitary local and
you must then stop being the Cinderella of
again it safe.
ministerial portfolios and have a budget
appropriate to promote and guarantee.
[44]

[ 4. 5 ]

[46]

[47]

[48]

[49]

TOWARDS A

Comprehensive agrarian reform
[ 50 ]

S

í we consider that agrarian reform is the
based rural development and is addressed as
a process that aims to transform
Family Agriculture (AF), the generation of
sources of income and security and sovereignty
peasant food, represents a change
which it requires social and economic regulatory state

Economic and deep transformation based on
the rights and peasant identity, generating
Free alternative organization and participation
allowing choosing the benefited form
organization in terms of ownership, use and
land tenure.

[51]

It also requires an established management
on the principle of gender equality and the
regional particularities, guaranteed technical, credit and marketing assistance, complementary services such as health, education,
housing, infrastructure, pointing to ways of
community according to cultural traditions and
organizational, valuing the peasant culture
and natural assets.
The long period of prebendarismo that characterized the "land reform" has caused deep inequities and imbalances in access to
production resources in the field, placing
Paraguay as one of the countries with the highest
inequity in the structure of land ownership.
This plan outlines the outlines of
short term and is a working tool, open
to the suggestions and proposals that can enrich, and therefore subject of socialization and
validation to promote a process of consultation of stakeholders in the peasant rural issues.

June by a coup parliamentarians,
Constitution, the current Agrarian Statute
and the experience and proposals concerning
INDERT.
The reflections of reality possible to design the next long-term vision (15-20
years), as the final horizon of a process to build and develop. The vision incorporates the idea
well implemented the agrarian reform should
allow the completion of the process by
changing the inequitable structure
land tenure with a new one that reflects
distributional equity and legal and institutional mechanisms of secure access to land by
those interested in engaging in production
agriculture and forestry.
For Avanza Country Agrarian Reform should aim for convergence and intensification of the struggle
poverty and inequality.
STRATEGIC outlines
SHORT TERM

SHORT-TERM PLAN

Outlines to be promoted by
INDERT

The Plan was developed based on a long-
powerful built based on documents
and proposals made by organizations
farmers on Agrarian Reform Plan
Development of the Government that took office in 2008
and whose executive was ousted 22

Initiate a consultation process between the peasant organizations INDERT and other institutions and organizations involved in the form
directly with the Agrarian Reform on the main problems affecting the inequitable

[52]

[53]

agrarian structure of the country and measures of social support lines MAG process of Agrarian Reform
solution.
Immediately incorporate approaches to work and operating procedures to help
adjust the structure and performance to INDERT
the requirements of the Agrarian Reform intends to implement the national government and ensure
achievement of the desired impact.

Endorse and support the budget increase
INDERT required to meet the demands of land and rural settlement services, by peasant organizations.

Define specific programs that may involve agencies in the system MAG
Develop specific studies on the problems rural settlements, especially those affecting major SERMAS Agrarian Reform vices oriented approach to sustainability
to enable sound decision-making in program:
different areas posed by the process.
•• program of conservation and sustainable use of
soil - DEAG (mapping of settlements
Focusing on critical issues
capacity as land use, settlements prelos; alimentaparación security as a technology package for
ria, production to improve revenue,
dissemination and transfer of bad practices of health care especially sustainable maternonejo soil, forming refereninfantil, basic education, roads
tes and focal points in different areas
access and transparency in the management of orgaasentamientos to act in a plane
organizations.
more horizontal to promote and monitor
Incorporate programs deadopción approach of technological packages.
rights and standards that promote equity in
the distribution of resources, access to opportunistic •• Seed Program, under the guidance of
tunities for development and relationships
SENAVE and involvement of technical
gender.
DEAG, develop organizations
peasant introduction strategies
Promote the active participation of beneficiasemillas improved, adequate preparation
rivers in the definition and implementation of policies públisuelos, planting, tending, harvesting,
cas rural development.
storage, preservation and distribution.

[54]

•• Increase coverage of water supply line po- support of the Ministry of Education
table through quiz address and Culture (MEC)
DEAG for water well drilling
To meet the claim of
deep.
farmers in relation to basic education,
Lines of action to support the Go- secure the infrastructure, equipment, items
decentralized ments (governors and teachers and support materials for aprenMunicipalidades) and MOPC dizaje Program.
Agrarian reform.
Line support of the Ministry of Health to PúInvolucrar governments, municipalities and
MOPC in identifying needs for
Access to settlements and establish cooperation agreements for the use of machines
vials and staff of these institutions to the
construction and maintenance of roads, in order to ensure passability
throughout the year by adopting conservation standards in the construction and maintenance of roads.

Republic and Welfare (MSPyBS) and the National Environmental Sanitation Service
(SENASA)

Priority for maternal and child health and basic sanitation of dwellings
rural settlements through services
sustainable.
Line support of the Cadastre
the Ministry of Finance, the General Property Registry of the Judiciary

Channel assistance and the Governorates
Municipalities in development programs for the exchange and production informaciode settlements through tions services in cooperation with the INDERT, with proapoyo the economic, social and environmental development. purpose of sanitation and data transparency
related to rural properties.
Line support of the Secretariat Action
Line working together with the Ministry
Social (SAS)
Public
To incorporate the families of the settlements as priority target population of the project for the treatment of conflicts generated in
cough under management, aimed at reducing the processes of agrarian reform and involving
intervention of the ministry.
indicators of rural poverty.
[55]

CHALLENGES

Support Line CONAVI / SENAVITAT

For the attention of the housing deficit of the modality of institutional coordination for the development of public policies
rural settlements.
Land reform was and remains a misaligned Support ANDE, Itaipu and Yacyreta
trust important to the culture of the political class
For providing electrical energy to the Paraguayan settle-. Further considering that the
behav- and providing construction services character of the policy aimed at a political
State of the Comprehensive Agrarian Reform repair
that they have social binational.
the historically unequal access of recurLíneas commitment of organizations're natural, productive, service and Peasant infraesnes
structures for sustainable rural development
rural and indigenous populations.
With the process of agrarian reform:
- Organize families claiming land involved break modality cultures
through reliable information and institutional transparency strong tight (fiefdoms) in
where each shaped implements actions
ent;
isolated according to its competence and so
- Support the INDERT in detecting patronage fiscal lands.
limes, ill-gotten land and buildings negociaAbrir a space in each of the institutions
ble for Agrarian Reform;
with competence and responsibility in the territories of rural settlements and by
- Design and implement concerted processes
first time into their plans and Agrarian Reform presupuesde conjunction with
cough needs of services and infrastructure
institutions involved.
basic.
- Promoting changes posed Reform
Land in the framework of respect for the laws and
political, strategic and operational agreements
made with institutions and stakeholders.

Overcoming institutional bureaucracy to expedite
the efforts and the administrative procedures for
dynamic performance
Overcome institutional resistance to change his daily activities.

[56]

Apply a methodology with more participation Retrofitting institutional structures
beneficiaries in the design, implementation and monitoring for the implementation of public policies
ment plan.
Development strategies including strategies intersectoDesarrollar inclusion of material operation
tariat in implementing the plan.
Changing land laws for equitable distribution of land and other factors.
EARRINGS
Further deepening of public policy Modification of the budget structure for
universal social protection and comprehensive approach. speeding up the implementation of Politi (concepts and methodology development of international public welfare cas
Convention territory)

[57]

[58]

[59]

[60]

[61]

[62]

[63]

MOVING TOWARDS

DECENT HOUSING

FOR ALL
[64]

E

l can live in decent housing with toilets and sanitation, it is one of the
fundamental rights of individuals,
and stresses Article 25 of the Declaration
Universal Human Rights.

for a large part of the Paraguayan population
It is obliged to live in precarious homes sheet
and wood, or shared with relatives in overcrowded and family rooms, or finally renting a small room with shared bath for a roof
to protect them from the weather.

But, as with many other human rights, this statement has been omitted According to official data, in Paraguay there is a given [65]

and developed in recent years, that is, the
financing through the AFD and the direct action of SENAVITAT, but availability
well above last resource, allowing
and effectively solve the problem conclusively "home" for a large part of the population
Paraguay, both middle class as the
In recent years it has tried to remedy this
Popular sectors.
situation promoting a program of housing construction financing by Presby The AFD agency should focus its mortgage printamos long-term action provided marily in the provision of public agency AFD préstapor through banks we mortgage to 20-25 years duration for
and financial, and more active action of sectors of the middle class and popular
Newborn National Housing Secretariat higher revenues for both building
(SENAVITAT) which has replaced its action CONAVI in new homes and for the renovation of already
tion of promoting the construction of existing housing, limiting its action exclusively
construction or renovation of the "first house"
das popular in the country.
or the houses in which they live or will live
But both actions have been developed
beneficiaries, avoiding large fund
very shy, without sufficient resources or
builders responsible for speculation
a clear determination to give a look
edilicia. Funding will direct the effective beneficiasolución the housing problem
river that will use it only for
Paraguay, and prompt actions that allow
construction or renovation of housing through
effectively reduce the housing deficit
legal and construction companies in the country garantiexistente.
cen IPS coverage for all workers
It is therefore necessary to promote a policy affected the construction itself, under penalty of
housing more bold and aggressive, that suspension of the loan.
look significantly solve the problePor turn focus its action SENAVITAT
m of housing in Paraguay. It's not about
the construction of popular houses, aimed at
invent anything new, just about fortalos poorest groups that are not in
ening existing, pushing the two sides
conditions of access to loans
deficit of 360,000 homes, a fact that for the
2020 could reach 500,000. Furthermore almost
70% of existing homes
need extensions, repairs or improvements, while many of these uninsured
running water or sewerage.

[66]

AFD. SENAVITAT action shall be addressed to allow more economic hardship sectors also have the opportunity to access decent housing in a suitable habitat,
through democratic and inclusive processes,
with participation and social cohesion, in territories
sustainable; that will be implemented promoting a
process access to housing based on the
personal income of each beneficiary, with contributions
by the State and payments fees (canon
monthly) in 30 years suited to the effective level
Revenue from these; SENAVITAT also promote a process parallel to the development of housing construction activity, through
implementation of potable water, storm and sanitary sewer, sidewalks, public, cobbled or paved streets, all
time, ensure the development of a habitat
really worth for beneficiaries.
The aim of the housing policy will
construction of at least 200,000 homes
in the 2013-2018 presidential term, so well to halve the housing shortage
scheduled for that date.
To finance this action the Government will seek international loans for $ 3,000 million in the five-year rule, which
will represent an increase of external debt
15% of GDP; certainly indebtedness
relevant but that will be transformed into a mighty

so engine of economic development for the country,
Also participating in the sustained creation of
jobs; not less than 300,000 in the
five.
The proceeds from the loans given
to be used as investment capital
loans (AFD) and the construction of popular houses whose assignment provides for payment of a monthly fee (SENAVITAT) is
remain in force over time, ensuring
a permanent working capital for housing
in the country that allow the AFD and SENAVITAT
continue to build homes (at least
10 to 15 thousand per year) also after 2018,
without new loans, but using
only payments loans
and fee income housing provided.
But besides effectively and definitively solve the problem of housing, this action
government as noted, it will have an effect
highly expansive in terms of growth
economic and job creation. This
because the massive construction of new housing not only will create jobs
Work in the area of ​​construction (which as
We are pointed out not less than 300,000 in the
Five years of government) but also boost
sustained growth of the whole structure
economic industrial-commercial exists alre-

[67]

dedor compartment construction,
namely, cement production, bar
iron pipes, bricks and ceramic,
wooden doors and windows, etc., allowing
also opening a market space
sufficient for the installation of new industries, such as the bathroom and kitchen tiles, of
fittings, of equipment for bathrooms and kitchens,
etc. A large and balanced growth process
sustained for the entire sector to determine an
significant growth of the Paraguayan economy all giving a strong contribution to reducing
Sustained poverty in the country.

All the above, together with decisive action to formalize businesses
construction and work in construction,
through permanent checks of Finance,
IPS and the Vice Ministry of Labor, for this
huge resources that the State will contribute to the construction of housing and industry
construction, they become an element
determinant to transform working practices, currently existing in this sector,
cash "decent work".

[68]

[69]

[70]

[71]

[72]

[73]

Moving towards greater

CITIZEN SECURITY
[74]

C

hen we talk about public safety
we enter a very complex area
it is not limited to (effective or not) operating either
agencies comprising the criminal justice system
(Police, prosecution, courts, prisons); in fact
the existence of a growing demand for semi

safety is the expression of true
social demand is mainly related to the gross inequality and the need for
build a society free of abuse of power
from anyone (including authorities).
In fact the demand for security searches related with other demands such as demand

[75]

[76]

of certainty, that is, the need to know what rights effectively
population and demand for judicial role
associated with management efficiency
of Justice.

Persistent economic bilities, repression
criminal offenses, privatization and monetization of personal safety, the use of
Police as instrument maintenance
status quo.

Avanza País, therefore interprets the problem
lack of security as an issue to be addressed in the framework of Social Protection
Universal, aiming to reduce inequality installing this growing phenomenon.

On the other hand it seeks to ignore all the "social" elements of the defense
public safety, those whose constant
derogations are depriving the vast majority of citizens living conditions
a decent life; see security guaranteed
full implementation of human rights
everyone (also the weak and excluded); the comprehensive protection of rights
development tool of social peace; comprehensive public action to ensure safety
staff as part of collective security; the
police and social welfare and collective actor
not as a repressive instrument of power.

So the concept of security policy carries with it an integral concept of
which they are elements protection
rights of all persons, including
also the economic, social and
cultural and not only property rights or
"security" in terms of police protection.
To be clear, generally it seeks to limit the problem of public safety to a
defense repressive process situations
preset privileges, that puts the center
exclusive defense of certain rights (property, life) and forget that the protection of citizen security means defending the set
human rights of people (health,
work, housing, education, etc.)

Based on this vision for the Government
he assumed in 2008 (and has been sharply
ousted in June 2012) it has begun
a review process of the security concept
citizens through the development of a National Policy Document Database Security
Citizen - NCSP - (which has been in the process of validation), which overall objective
So finally it reaches limit policies aimed at outlining guidelines for the realization
security to preventive aspects and levels represented public safety and governance
liabilities of criminal act, carried protecting allow full exercise of the rights and
[77]

citizens' freedoms, that is, the full force but to potential offenders, in order to
to contain and prevent them from falling
citizenship.
finally in the crime. That means actions
From the NCSP, defense, promotion and
aimed at reducing criminal risk in human rights baprotección parrrios are degraded by strengthening
you of its major axis, constituting them capabilities to retain middle schools
It is at the base to act on the causes of
their school population, employment generation,
crime prevention and invesde favoring the construction of spaces for litigation time of the crime, all starting from a conbre.
concept of citizen security, which is
in line with the opinion of the Commission In- Reform and modernize the police: Police must
act as an instrument for the protection of
teramericana Human Rights (CIDH).
the rights and freedoms of citizens and
We must regain what has been specifically lono only as a tool to combat
degree in 2008-2012 in this field, and
crime. It is a democratic public service
promote appropriate and consistent actions
You must serve all citizens and Ciula regional vision about relacionadadanas issues, without distinction as to
two Public Safety; in this sense
gender, social or economic status, orientaespecíficamente propose:
sexual tion, ideology or political affiliation. The poliImpulsar practices Co. prevention and control can not be seen as an instrument
Crime: Crime is structured from the enforcement and defense of the status quo and
existence of certain social factors in the city this must be completely redesign your structure
zenship, such as living conditions, the organizational, still embedded culture
working conditions, changes in the repressive organization and provide them with technical and systems teczación of family life, poverty and exclusion for modern ical control of territory
social pressure. To prevent crime, then, is (territorial chambers systems, unnecessary patrol influence the structural causes that teligentes, high-tech equipment
encouraging crime propel the uprisings devel- test). It should be noted
social development of those at risk to improve education and training
to commit crimes. Ie the action of police officers, their professionalism,
Preventive should not be directed towards the victims by providing instruments and tools
[78]

suitable for carrying out their work in the form Imposing control of firearms in the population: As Amnesty International notes - Caeficiente and effective.
Paraguay chapter - our country is no stranger to
Increase the "cost of crime" must Imlah problem of uncontrolled weapons
pressing environmental prevention measures defuego. Firearms and crimes comelito systematic and ongoing manner to
mitted by them they have become elements
reduce opportunities for its occurrence,
present and constant in everyday life
reducing the chances for its realization,
Paraguayan society. It is estimated that 1,000,000
imposing further criminal esfuerde firearms are in the hands of
zo for completion, increasing the risks
civilians and only 30% of them are encueny reducing profits; This way difitra registered. We must strengthen control
cultando crime and making it less remuneposesión weapons and launch and countries
operative, the amount will be reduced, allowing
recovery policies neighbors thereof,
police face and solve a numecomo element of its risk reduction
ro least of these, thus making more
abuse as instruments of peace
simple and effective their work.
in neighborhood relations.
Coordinated fight against crime organiModernizar the Penal System: The Judiciary
Zada and transnational: A very important aspect
is widely discredited and confidence
the criminal phenomenon these days is the Srila citizenship in it is very low. Besides access
transnaa foundation of justice organized crime becomes increasingly difficult: for
tional or transboundary which constitutes the
economic, geographic and reliable reasons
greater risk to the stability of the regimes
therein. The justice system reaches podemocráticos, and where the United encuencos citizens and is characterized by its high level
tran, most of the time, virtually corruption Imde so eventually that queposibilitados to face successfully. Enda behind bars makes for much part of the
frentar effectively this situation is necessary
excluded population. The same prison system
promote greater international cooperation
It demonstrates the inefficiency of justice; the jail
with a high degree of coordination and its role fully sincronizapierde resocialization
tion of the shares, and to coordinate prosecution
and deposit is transformed into human beings
with neighboring countries so as to have orgaprivados all right. Currently 6,221
conicity repressive action in these crimes.
[79]

people held only 17% is doomed, public safety if it is not acompalas other processes continue with earrings. Nothing po- not a complete reform judidrá never materialize an effective policy of social and national prison system.

[80]

[81]

[82]

[83]

[84]

[85]

MOVING TOWARDS
TRUE OF BODIES

citizen participation
[86]

L

to democracy it can not be limited to the electoral exercise every few years. Democracy to be alive and able to reach its peak - social justice, needs to be
active every day of every year. This democracy of which we speak is the way a
society builds on a day to day decisions and

He holds the shares for which it is transformed
reality and thus transforms the lives of people, making better and much happier under
a society that shares a common project
where everyone sit builders
present and future.

[87]

The absence of real democracy has transformed
policy on the delegation of power by the vote
for groups that control the resources of all
as if they were his own and transforms rights
in favors and privileges.
Real democracy demands an active stance
people to act as citizens or
it's like, conscious political subjects
their rights, express their demands and needs within the framework of a democratic exercise where the individual wins meaning and significance in the struggle of everyone, which have
water in your home is inserted into the ambition that
all the neighbors have water, where having health
one is planned for the construction of a universal health care system, which have good education means having a quality education
it reaches all people in every corner
of the Republic, where decent housing is a
achievable heritage the whole community, where the wealth produced in the country and distributed
redistribute for fair tax systems of
Indeed everyone is already paying and especially
the poorest. This idea of ​​a collective identity which each and every one also find answers to their material needs and
social is part of true democracy
participatory.

Participatory proposes a way to make in
which every citizen and every citizen of Paraguay to participate in the design of solutions to the problems of life and people
also they decide how resources are allocated to
that the proposed solutions can be made,
while the National System wants
that people know in depth what are
the problems and challenges facing the country and
who understand the political challenges facing the changes, if they really are changes that respond to the needs of
town. Information, education, political culture,
Culture of citizenship rights culture, role in political confrontation and solidarity action, along with development proposals
the government of the People, the People's Power. East
It is the sense of participation - generating power
in communities and thus challenge the Government,
Parliament and the judiciary to find the necessary solutions to the challenges of the nation.
Together in this building.

All together, without exception, as a system
participation is a system that deviates or
discriminate on party status, or age,
gender, class or ethnicity, so that the criterion
to compose this national system will be the participation of territorial belonging, where all communities, all families and
The coalition Avanza Country proposing a Sistodos individuals will be part of a territory
National Planning and Budgeting topic
[88]

in this instance as a territorial assembly
and Government bodies have debates there an integrated space, actions and surrenders
account, where problems are identified
from the life of the people and solutions that will be presented in the proposed framework is the
territorial planning to then discuss and
define other territories in the region what the priorities are and where you should put
resources every year. This communal territory
It will then be the basis upon which people build their collective identity to advance
Country since Commune and from there participate in
the construction of the Nation as a whole. These
communal territory generate youth networks,
women, elderly, indigenous people,
everyone that since their identities and interests may be linked with their counterparts around
Paraguay and build the everyday fabric of a
participatory democracy.
As part of these communal territories
you just have to define where participatory
put the resources each year, but must be
define how they can generate from national, regional and district policy the necessary resources through organized political action.
But it is also necessary to say that there exists a
series of situations that demand action
these regional development councils with
public services, Community initiatives

for the quality of life, education and politics
community development initiatives, including
for the articulation of territories with direct development projects and international cooperation via other channels that will be promoted by
the Government of Avanza Country.
Loa communal territories are articulated in regions of interest to compose the Grand National Council as a forum for delegates to
national decisions, each representing
communal country and each segment
population that makes up the diversity of the people
Paraguayan.
It will be a great bet size for the radicalization of democracy in the country and the way more
Transparent put the state at the service of the
needs of the entire population toward justice
social.
Promote regional exchange with forms
participatory democracy in Brazil, Argentina, Uruguay and Bolivia will be another stimulus for
participatory democracy deepens and win
hard to describe the same representative democracy and the dynamics of Parliament in its
relationship with the collective aspirations of society.
Furthermore, as the state must be permanently under the control of society through participatory democracy where
people participate mainly through

[89]

free expression of their desires and needs and
transform this representation of the problems
of their lives in the key input for the decisions and planning of government, which from the
social territories where people live and work,
It can build a sense of economic and social protections that dignify the people and give meaning to do
State. This is what the proposal ambition
a national system of participatory planning and budgeting, which could lead to
agendas decision of the actions and the use
State resources felt needs
of people in each territory and allow well
people decide together with their peers and
the government and immediately control the use of
resources and the impact and quality of actions.
This will be how to respond to the needs
social, but not a depoliticized manner and
accommodated to the limits of resources but
rather oriented participatory strategic planning that aims to generate resources as missing and look beyond the boundaries
each social territory resources that depend on tax changes, deconcentration
of land, fair distribution
resources according to the needs and inequities
suffering populations.

This territorially participation covering all
It brings home to people the possibility of reforming the Constitution and thus guarantee that its decisions really affect the use of resources
public to respond to emergencies affecting an entire people and they need an executive,
a parliament and a judiciary aligned
the public good.
With this National System of Participatory Planning and Budgeting country wants Avanza
profoundly transform political relations in Paraguayan society and the project
region and the world mark of Paraguay
as profoundly democratic nation where
democracy means transparency and social commitment of the State, where the economy serves
people, where nature is respected and
dignity of life, which will never coups and where every life will be protected and
promoted in its highest expression of dignity.
Work for the April 21, 2013 the
citizens choose to take Avanza Country Paraguay a National System of Participatory Planning and Budgeting.

[90]

[91]

[92]

[93]

[94]

[95]

PROGRESS TOWARDS A

TAX SYSTEM

FAIR AND PROGRESSIVE
[96]

T

ear government program needs to be funded and would be irresponsible on our
, submit proposals entailing
major spending public resources, without indicating how these costs would be financed.

the courage to point out that poverty, widespread in
large segments of the population, is due in large
As the concentration of wealth in few
hands and lack of redistributive policies in the
country.

Many times Paraguay is designated as a country when we talk about redistribution of wealth
rich and for this reason should not be so civilized countries essentially means
population in poverty; but rarely it has the resource recovery, by the
[97]

State, through taxes, to use
for the strata of the population are
needy, providing social services (health, education, housing, etc.) Quality
to improve their living conditions.

But there is a very limited rebalancing as
those who earn between 3 and 10 minimum wages
monthly pay 8% tax on their profits, and who earns more than 10 minimum wages
monthly pay 10% of their profits.

But to make this possible the tax system must be fair, progressive and united;
where the contribution to state coffers commensurate
the rate of growth of the wealth of the citizen, ie a system where who else wins
It brings more and some less earn less provides.

Also for companies the situation is similar,
Since every business, large or small, pay
the State in tax status only
10% of total earnings.

That condition is not met currently in Paraguay where those who earn the least generally spend all their income month
sustenance, and in most cases without knowing
that 10-15% of your monthly income will
in tax and VAT (payable
the purchase of any product) or custom (which
You pay with buying products that come from
exterior); while the top earners, and
They spend only a small part of their income on
daily maintenance, finally come to pay
only 2-3% of their income tax
paying VAT or customs.

This situation finally determined that the tax revenue currently comes only in Paraguay
13% of GDP, ie the wealth generated during the year for every $ 100, only
13 go to the state as tax. It may seem
but it is not much. Argentina, Brazil and Uruguay,
to speak only of the neighboring countries have a
30-35% taxation ie each
$ 100 produced during the year, going 30-35
the State and reinvested in services for people

To reach these levels is not intended
that, poor or rich, citizenship deliver such a part of their income to the state, but rather
the richest sectors of society are
these companies, banks, soybean, livestock, Pacón the recent approval of tax Ren guen the State proportionally based
ta, was intended in part to correct this situation, presented their profits.
seeing that each citizen to win more than 3 Shapur Thus, a worker earning three to ten
Larios minimum monthly pay a percentage of
minimum monthly wage should pay a
their earnings (income-less expenses) to the State.
10% tax, while those earning
[98]

[99]

11 to 50 monthly minimum wages should pay 25% tax and those who
earning more than 50 minimum monthly wages should pay 40% tax. And this should
both worth individuals (tax to
personal) income and also for companies, because it is not fair that a micro business
2 or 3 employed pay the same amount
tax that a big bank or a big
billing industry .All this 1000 times
with the proviso that certain productive sectors that contribute directly to building the country's development, such as industries,
They should pay lower taxes than those
companies based solely on the exploitation
soil (soybean, livestock) or handling money (banks, financial).

It notes that in Brazil in the last 10 years
the governments of Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva and Dilma
Rousseff have brought 35 million people
poverty through the creation of more jobs
work and social transfers, mainly due to the increased availability of resources
through a high taxation (35%), which
have been allowed to make investments and provide sufficient social assistance (health, education,
transfers) for the Country System to grow, and
together to grow the wealth of all citizens fairly. In Paraguay, with
fiscal pressure as the current that comes just
13%, this would be impossible, because the state does not
It has sufficient resources to finance effective and efficient services that meet their
citizens.

The tax increase progressively, so that involves much more than at present the richest strata of the population,
then one of the main keys to
Government develop an action to improve the
Only when we have a living system imposicondiciones providing services
tive as we propose it be possible consepúblicos quality.
Guir sufficient resources to provide truly worthy and effective services for more taxation also it is possible to have
citizenship and solidarity may redistribute enough to push more work bridged the gulf all the wealth produced by the Republics System as roads, schools, hospitals resources, which will
Country (which also involved the company- further contribution to improving the lives of the
rivers, also workers, teachers, citizens.
housewives, ie the entire population).
So all taxes should be progressive: who earn less pay less and who else
earn more pay, according a progressive increase
percentage of taxes you pay.

[100]

The tax increase will also allow
prevent the Paraguayan state into debt to
build infrastructure. In fact almost all
routes in the country have been carried out with loans
international debt which remains a
permanent for our finances.
This is not to say that borrowing
international not useful for the country; but we consider it useful for international loans used to build infrastructure
whose life might already be obsolete before the
loan is repaid.
Paraguay has an external debt well
below any country in the region, only the
10% of GDP, when a 50% debt
It is still considered acceptable. Therefore if
the coming years, arrived to resort to loans or sell sovereign bonds for 10,000 million US dollars, the country's accounts would not be out of control. This is an advantage that there
they explode.

assume to finance the development of the country,
industrializacióna example to drive through
support for new productive enterprises
(As noted in chapter work) or
to finance the construction of dwellings (as
noted in the chapter on housing), these
yes they correspond to a timely use of
loans because the money would not be spent
but invested in development activities for the
country, which concluded (materialized industrialization and built the necessary houses)
availability would return to the State, to be
returned to borrowers, so closing
Ultimately the debt and obtaining, thanks
to it, an important economic growth
the country and therefore a substantial reduction
poverty.

Therefore, the debt makes sense when
seeks to promote the country's development, and not for
make expenditures that should go directly to
state coffers, thanks to a collection
much greater and more equitable tax, as well as
Now, if you want to take these loans or sell noted.
der bonds to pay salaries works or not
The other method that should be used to potenestamos of acuerdo.Como already noted, not pociar infrastructure development of the country, can we proceed indebted country whose life expenses
Biera be using increasingly harder,
It is less than the term of the loan itself or
Structural Convergence Fund Merbono sovereign, which in turn, generally
COSUR (FOCEM), which has just been activated
established as a permanent debt.
to enable the least developed countries
Unlike the case if the loans and bonds MERCOSUR, such as Paraguay, install infra [101]

[102]

appropriate structures to enable them to bring their
the level of development of their neighbors and not only in infrastructure but also services
production infrastructure. Paraguay currently providing 1 million US dollars per year
receives between 50 and 60 million US dollars
FOCEM grants for infrastructure.
Funds provided by the FOCEM should not only be widely and successfully used by Paraguay, but in the field
a policy of increasing integration
MERCOSUR, Paraguay would boost their substantial increase. In fact our parliamentarians will have done the country a better service if,
they had negotiated a significant increase
FOCEM the background so that the MERCOSUR economies could further reduce
their differences and asymmetries in widening towards economic and social integration
and effective.
Only by broadening the tax base, including
today who produce wealth and not providing, and promoting a system of debt
to finance development infrastructure and not to pay, be possible to build a process
growth and development for the country really
sustainable, which may in a few years permit
substantial increase in wealth of the population

and therefore a reduction in the levels determined
poverty, drawing from the hundreds way
of thousands of citizens of marginality.
It is also important to implement tax
Progressive properties and the differentiated taxation between essential goods and luxury products and services and taxation to
wealth in the form of banking operations,
setting goals on the level of taxes
GDP and more clearly the levels of taxation
income.
The overall tax collection is a way of
professionalize universal public services
by appropriate full-time wage and thus ensuring universal services
everyone's access to rights without distinction of rich and poor but funded so
just.
So production- combine formal employment
and living wage - generating distribution - and
through social policies and universal services
promoting wealth redistribution, which
It allows reducing the gap between the haves
and those without, building a country fair and
with decent life for all.

[103]

[104]

[105]

[106]

[107]

MOVING TOWARDS

ADMINISTRATION

EFFICIENT PUBLIC

[108]

E

s an incontrovertible fact that the Paraguayan public administration does not provide
citizenship services effectively and efficiently as should be expected, and that its
absurd bureaucracy and inadequate structure
give your organization does not allow every citizen and every citizen those health services, education, security, justice, they need
to develop a dignified and productive life.

What we have to assume is that this reality
it is merely the direct consequence of a distorted view that the traditional parties
have of politics, where the State is not the
serving the needs of the population, but
rather the service of those in power
and their patronage and personal enrichment needs.

[109]

Reform the state then simply means reversing this reality and design a truly public administration at the service of
citizenship effectively and efficiently.
Paraguay's inefficient public administration has generally been attributed to excess staff and inadequate selection
supporters, but in fact these are not reasons
the main causes of their problems.
With regard to the existence of an excessive amount of public officials in the state, it turns out to be a substantially false data,
given that public sector workers in Paraguay
are only 8.5% of the economically active population, as generally in countries where public administration works, the
Public workers represent 14-15% of
the population (eg Uruguay, with half
of the population of Paraguay, it has the same amount of public officials).
As for partisan interference in the selection of staff undoubtedly present in the
Paraguayan government. They are many
officials who have come through political godfathers and in many cases without having established functions and acting as Scorekeepers;
however this does not automatically determines inefficiency in the services provided by
I state.

What it points to the source of the problem it is that
the Paraguayan State suffers substantially
an organization that will work efficiently
prevented from providing services to the effectiveness and efficiency is needed. This is because you have to assume that the Paraguayan State is not designed
to serve the interests of citizens, but
rather to support the existence of authoritarian and dictatorial governments, which is not
He has changed with the advent of democracy,
As democratically elected governments
They have continued using the State exclusively to promote their political interests and
personal finances.
In fact if the Paraguayan State to comply with
all its functions in terms of health, education, security, justice, economic development
and social, as well as provided in the Constitution and its laws, they would lack staff to implement them.
The problem is that in public administration
Paraguay there is no organizational system
clearly defines the roles and loads
work actually required in each office to implement the activities that should
boosting the state, and this is the reason why
many public workers have nothing
to do and at the same time, many jobs
necessary for the welfare of citizens and not
they are actually incurred.

[110]

The problem then is to reform the state does not
achicándolo or enlarging it, but simply
transforming it to fulfill its function
to ensure the welfare of citizens, defining in each direction, in each department,
in each office, which are the work they
They are carried out; establishing that infrastructure and resources needed to achieve them and
defining how many workers and how
Qualifications should have, so that the services to be provided to citizens,
They materialize properly.
All this can be achieved without firing anyone or
make the population pay for the improvement
services, but simply reorganizing the state machine so that it more
efficient and effective.

work for the citizens, but rather
"Serve" the authorities, and if not totally submissive and obedient to his whims to
their orders (although they go against the law)
his most likely destination is the "freezer" and / or end
of his career.
Because of this public officials have no incentive to work with quality
and care, because, first, effort
hard will be rewarded as the administrative career, ie uploading in
the scale of charges and responsibilities (and consequently of wages), does not exist and the reclassifications not depend on the quality of
work done but the relationships
It has the authority (kinship, membership
same political, friendship, adulation) movement;
and secondly because although demonstrate
extreme quality at work, they never were
I allow you to reach management positions because
They are reserved only for the "men
confidence "of authority, however, demonstrated to be incompetent.

The organizational reform of public administration should be conducted together with the strengthening of human resources; does not about
as many argue to professionalize
workers, because these, the vast majority,
Training levels are more than adequate
the position they cover. This is instead of developing Then, the vast majority of workers
velop in them a desire to serve the state rather than citizens strive in their work to
provide the best possible services to the
regardless of the authority in power.
citizenship, prefers not to "complicate" too
This is possible only if we return liberla life, fulfill what you ask them without showing
dom and independence of public officials.
not too much quality initiative, which ultimately
Today state employees are not asked
it could be counterproductive for their future careers.
[111]

Finally, a reform could not be made
really effective public administration if not
It will also seek to resolve the enormous problems of infrastructure, equipment and supplies
Working suffering the majority of Paraguay public offices; in part problem
has been alleviated in recent years, although
still they are seeing many state departments
work in unacceptable conditions; buildings
crumbling, without computers
and technical resources, without the necessary inputs to fulfill the functions
It requires them.
So if the lack of an efficient organization, human resources and committed
infrastructure and resources, are
main obstacles to the Paraguayan public administration function properly and be able to provide citizens
citizens and those public services
quality and efficiency needed to improve their
quality of life, it is check which may be the most timely and appropriate
to be implemented quickly in order to definitively resolve these issues.

all state departments to standardize and manage all administrative activities
in order to make effective and efficient, simplifying
so the way the citizen
related to this. Bureaucracy is not an instrument to make life difficult for citizens,
It is the "technique" to solve their problems
transparency and efficiency, but for that to be
possible regulations should be established
and working procedures in each office
so that the steps taken and services
delivered is done in the most efficient manner
effectively and quickly as possible, without undue loss of time or for users complications.
Admission to the civil service through competition:
A truly independent and to serve the public administration citizenship can only
achieve leaving aside any political interference, and
this is achieved by preventing the authorities
in turn they can decide who enters the function
public. It is used as the sole method
Entry in the competition for state employment
opposition to tests and exams where
applicants can demonstrate the skills needed to hold public office.

In this regard we believe that these would be the least permanent staff: For the same reason indicated above must put an end to
most appropriate measures to be implemented:
the contracts on time in the state (práctiReforma of administrative organization:
ca, illegal up to the current law of the function
we must make a major organizational effort
public and deprives workers of the Jubilee [112]

[113]

tion and labor rights); as these are used to force tens of thousands
officials to be obsequious politicians
traditional and act actively in their policies and election campaigns on pain of not being
renewed their contracts.
Race for civil servants:
Public officials should be able to have an internal race in its institutions to enable them
grow professionally and economically. The
career should be defined through contests
internal opposition (not by the will of the authority) and be able to reach more levels
top of the organizational structure of the state.
Therefore the positions of trust must be removed. Ministers and Secretaries of State may have its own technical team but as advisors
External temporary administrative machine
directing, to act as supervisors
the development of state policies but
possibility of direct interference in the practice

administrative cas. This will be returned
independence and public administration
thus improve the quality of services to the
citizenship.
To quickly achieve the realization of the above measures will be two actions that are
will seek to carry out: the development and adoption of a new law on the Public Function
guarantees autonomy and independence of employment
public about political authority; and performing a global diagnostic functions
Ministries and Departments, to verify the
actual needs of workloads, material resources and human resources necessary to boost the functions provided by
current legislation and establish a rapid
organizational reform process of all public agencies involved, so that
a maximum of 24 months is achieved lift
concrete and determined the levels of efficiency and effectiveness of the administration way.

[114]

[115]

[116]

[117]

[118]

[119]

MOVING TOWARDS

CONSTITUTIONAL REFORM
[120]

L

1992 National Constitution has been,
undoubtedly a major achievement in
the construction of a new Paraguay truly free and democratic, after long
night of the Stroessner dictatorship; but unfortunately many of his articles have been
written more with the fear of a return to
past that with the vision of building
a strong democracy with which progress towards
the future.

rights, duties and the warrant is perhaps one
the most advanced among the Constitutions
Latin America; The second part, which
Planning refers to the state, it turns out to be
absolutely inadequate to guarantee
good development of democracy in the country. This
it has a dramatic imbalance between state powers in favor of parliament,
which in turn enjoys enormous privileges
They put it in a very superior position to power
executive and judiciary, determining a sort of
Because of this, while the first part of the
"Parliamentary dictatorship" whose reality has
Constitution of 1992, which refers to dere [121]

made clearly visible in June 2012, with To get the result we noted, prola unjustified dismissal and within 24 ho- we discuss the following issues
of the Constitution:
flush with the President-elect Fernando Lugo
This imbalance between the legislative, executive and judicial powers, for the first and
against the other two, it is the main cause of
Paraguayan state of all evil today:
is what prevents become truly independent justice being maneuvered change in
constantly by the traditional political parties in favor of their interests; is
which it prevents the Presidency of the Republic
specifically carry forward their programs
Government, being constantly harassed by a
preventing any reform parliament to retain their own privileges.
Therefore it is important to an early reform of the Constitution and then prove necessary, after the elections of 21
April, quickly call a Convention
Constituent with a mandate to change the second part of the 1992 Constitution
(Except for the first part) to rebalance
finally the branches of government. Thus each of them were restore function
it belongs: to the Presidency of the Republic to define the role of development policies
from the country; Parliament's role to make laws;
the judiciary's role to manage so
independent justice in Paraguay.

Unicameral Parliament vs. Bicameral
Revocation of mandates: All elected office (President, Parliamentary, mayors, councilors) should be able to be
revoked by popular will on completion
midterm, through referendum
made at the request of 10% of the electorate by
each position and celebrated them during
those already provided for elections to avoid
unnecessary expenses (revocation of President and
parliamentarians during the municipal elections of mayors and councilors revocation durantes general election).
Reelection and suppression
Vice: A single command difficult
It allows the president-elect to carry forward those structural changes that our
country needs, so we consider it necessary that the Constitution allows the possibility of
reelection for another 5 years. At the same time
we believe that the Vice President has shown
an unnecessary charge and sometimes destabilizing for democratic development
country. The figure of the Vice President should be elected
replaced by the Executive Vice President, who
It should be appointed by the President-elect

[122]

among his ministers whenever you are absent from
country or government practices for more than
one week. In case of death, resignation, revocation or removal of President should
provide automatic closing of the legislature and
make new general elections for all
charges (presidential and parliamentary) in the
120 days.
Rebalancing of the branches of government: no
to return to their President
main prerogatives, in order to rebalance the current imbalance between the powers of the
Stood for Parliament. The President must
to appoint ambassadors, directors of Itaipu
and Yacyreta, BCP members, etc. without any
need the backing of Parliament; Of the same
form the Annual General Budget presented
by the Executive must be able to be modified
Parliament only in the part related to the
investment expenditure and not in the category of staff or running costs. Increased
salaries in the public service should only be handled through collective bargaining between unions and Presidency, without congressional interference.
The President's veto power should be objectionable only with the favorable vote of 2/3
the members of each chamber of parliament (in
So there are two cameras)
Independence of the judiciary: You have to
return to the Judiciary and the Attorney their au-

omy and independence from political power and
Government. Prosecutors and judges should have access
to public service exclusively through the
approval of the review annually;
triples (which drive the sale of objections) and fiscal and judicial career would be deleted
They should be driven by competition
internal opposition under the supervision of a
The reformed Judicial Council, which would act as an organ of self-regulation
encompassing judges itself the Jury
enjuiciamiento.El Judicial Council should have 15 members, 12 of whom elected in free elections among prosecutors, lawyers
and judges, and other three appointed by the Presidency and
parliament. The Supreme Court should be dissolved. The financial management of the courts should
submitted to the Ministry of Justice and its role
third level of judgment in civil and criminal matters
specific courts of appeal: The theme of
constitutional revision would be resolved with the opening of a 7-member Constitutional Court,
elected for life form among doctors
right (with thesis on constitutional law)
They have completed 60 years of age, and its decisions should be applicable to all citizens
so as to act as a supervisory body of the
Parliament legislative action.
Redefining the role of governors.

[123]

[124]

Proposal on Human Rights

the State, this must be added the deficiency
in the granting of civil rights
Currently the executive branch has no citizens, being one of the country Paraguay
no independent institution that can carry more unequal in the world.
forward the policy on human rights, despite the enormous responsibilities The reality of today Paraguay shows us a
des that the Paraguayan State has both ups and downs in international country with political stability, with
mind, as with those derived from the Conventions, significant challenges in building a
Agreements, protocols and conventions that has model country in the existence of a set
of unsolved problems and that manifiessuscrito and ratified.
so steadily in conflict urgently needed sociaParaguay establish them as the most significant examples we can
Human Rights Policy including name exceeding the problem of land and housing.
sive successive governments, and an institution
charged with monitoring its implementation. The slaughter of the Curuguaty reveals to us the drama
Human rights cut across all ill-gotten lands, and the absence of
State institutions, but the creation deserves access to justice by the sectors most
vulnerable population. The Secretariat Naciode a governing and regulatory body.
tion on Human Rights should address these
From 1989 onwards Paraguay has ratified problem as part of an outline
ed an important number of strategic policy instruments framed
International Human Rights concerning the recognition of the dignity
We, as has been submitted to the competition as the main purpose of public policy.
the American Convention on Human Rights,
however, we can not say seriously Creation of the National Secretariat
that was advanced as we would have liked Human Rights.
in this field, first by the high rate
As part of compliance with the recomende impunity for crimes against humanidaciones the Final Report of the Commission
ty that were committed during the dictatorship
Truth, Justice, create the NaStroessner Secretariat, but also because all
tion of Human Rights, as deperiodo body back, have continued to commit acpendiente directly to the President of the challenges prejudicial against fundamenpública rights, the Executive Secretary must have
such people by agents
[125]

ministerial rank, and is the governing body
public policies on human rights.

1. Promoting sustainable development in conditions of fairness and enable inclusive economic growth.

This Secretariat will coordinate the Network on Hu- 2.
Human rights of the executive, and monitor
compliance with the Policy on Human Rights, the recommendations of the Final Report

Truth and Justice, the international obligations 3.
tions in the field, as well as compliance
the provisions of international judgments,
friendly settlements and precautionary measures issued by supranational bodies.
Four.
Human Rights Policy.
During the government of Fernando Lugo was approved

the proposed human rights policy. 5.
How shaft enforcement actions by the
State, it is necessary for public policy in June.
human rights is approved by
Executive Order or by law. This
needed overhaul of the document with the participation of all sectors of the
State and civil society organizations, in case 7.
there are adjustments to be made to the document,
later to be formalized by normative
8.
It is going through.
The proposed Human Rights Policy
It has established strategic objectives
same, as follows:

[126]

Promote public policies for social inclusion of vulnerable populations and
the historically excluded.
Ensure the implementation of a comprehensive agrarian reform in the context of sustainable rural development, environmentally
balanced and technically responsible.
Access to adequate and sufficient food that relates to safety
food.
Universal access to integrated, comprehensive system health.
Ensuring access to education throughout life and ensure the continued membership
school, through the equitable, quality education.
Ensuring decent work and equitable
job security.
Ensure the ownership and possession of
lands and territories of indigenous communities and other excluded, respecting
rights of peoples in voluntary isolation.

[127]

Policy Justice, Truth and Memory.
A 24 years after the fall of the dictatorship of Alfredo
Stroessner, there are many outstanding debts
the field of justice. The government should encourage
within their legal powers continuity
of legal proceedings and investigations
relating to crimes committed during
that gray period of our history.

ment of municipal and departmental policies
on Human Rights.
Prioritize cooperation in all that it is necessary in finding missing, in coordination with the Public Ministry and the Justice and
recognition of the identities of the remains
found.

Prison systems and places of privaLa fight against impunity is one of the bands tion of freedom.
deras the future government, under the búsLlevar out a plan for improving luqueda of truth and the punishment of those responsible
gares of imprisonment, whether in the COMIDE crimes committed during the dictatorship.
sary, in prisons, center educaImpulsar policies tive reports from the Secretariat and juvenile detention centers.
National Estuary Human Rights, the Ministry
Work hard for prisons
Education and Culture, the Ministry of Interior,
fulfill the functions of rehabilitation of
the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Culture
people to society.
and other state agencies involved. The establishment of historic sites and to conduct an inventory of the situation will be promoted
memory, museums and monuments to the proprietary places of freedom, and geactuales and future generations aware of the neral He- audit the use of funds for improvement.
rights that occurred during the period of authoritarianism develop policies to combat illiteracy, for reflection and awareness, and how to avoid and give enough education inthis way according to the story happen again.
stan- needed to give people
in these conditions develop their self-esteem
Promote an educational policy Dey dignify them within a Human prograrechos at primary, secondary and social reintegration Thermo level.
ciary, as well as the training of public officials and the police and military forces. Train internal knowledge of
professions so they can incorporate as
Collaborate with local governments for the labor desafuerza, and develop plans to
[128]

get decent working conditions and prevent equality and ability to compete when
for positions.
recidivism.
Deepening policies prevention of torture and other degrading and inhuman treatment, in
that sense more to improve conditions
places of detention, push legislation
ensure immediate legal assistance services of detainees or arrested, will take
will collaborate with the organizations of both civil society and with the NPM to identify cases and punish
exemplarily the perpetrators thereof.

It should develop training programs
workers specialized in certain areas
in line with development policy to be driven, and avoid possible leakage labor
qualified.
The defense of workers / as indigenous women with different disabilities will be prioritized and
as all vulnerable groups.

Is firmly combat child labor,
establishing alternative programs to those
Labor conditions:
who are forced by their social and Ecola current reality of our country shows nomic to seek informal employment alternatives,
the large number of people working / as information such as street work.
formal not subject to any protection
Fighting discrimination
labor, as also a lack of control by
the organs of the State of the conditions Develop a coordinated policy between labor difenes people.
ferent state institutions to combat all
discrimination, especially those afecSe should strengthen control mechanisms and
as vulnerable groups (women, children / as
ensure organizational capacity of the
adolescents, people with different capacities,
workers in defense of their rights, in that
by their sexual orientation, the elderly, indigenous,
meaning the creation of the tables it will be promoted
Afro-descendant community, migrants, including
Tripartite for the resolution of conflicts laotros).
bor.
Development of legislation in line with the labor policy of the future government compromiLa, should international insos assumed by the Paraguay and
include measures aimed at eliminating all kinds of
the provisions Constidiscriminación within our workplaces,
National tution. Ne carry out the measures [129]

sary for people with skills
have different access to facilities, services, education, information and adequate public transportation.

less social visibility, strong historically discriminated and abandoned public policies implemented by successive
governments.

Warrants understand the context of today's society, where more and more seniors
They are not sufficiently protected
the family, forcing ensure basic economic conditions to ensure
Prevention policies worthy viovida be strengthened.
gender violence, officials specializing
public, establishing as many places Paying economic benefits to people
to receive complaints and improve seniors centers must be accompanied by a
universalization of retirement, and
containment victims.
improving health services, and other
Ensure through specific plans, the fundamental ACSERVICIOS norceso necessary for indigenous communities in programs
poor performance in society.
health education and also promote the organization of the same, respect and maintenance outer Rights Policy Huto of their culture, and access to the benefits of hands.
inclusively modernity.
Strengthening foreign policy DereLos education programs should provide for Human Rights from the Secretariat
teaching their original languages, and history
National coordination with the Ministry of Relade their culture, for it will boost training
Foreign tions. Having a proactive action in
indigenous teachers working in their comulos various international matters, for
ties.
be Conventions and Protocols, and drive level
strengthening regional bodies of Rights
Older adults
Ensuring human development policies
This segment of the population deserves a apartapúblicas and cooperation among States in
do especially considering that constitute the group
the integration process.
Take measures to ensure equal
equal access employment opportunities
women, and to combat sexual violence
and domestic.

[130]

[131]

[132]

[133]

[134]

[135]

[136]

[137]

[138]

[139]

[140]

[141]

[142]

[143]

The proposed Government Plan Avanza País, was developed with the cooperation of citizens to undertake commitments with Paraguay and its people. The following quotes are
a token of appreciation to all these people who knew how to interpret the principles of this
democratic dialogue and the spirit of government to a dignified life in Paraguay
Valinotti Zunia

Margarita Molinas

Ermelinda Benitez

Vladimir Velázquez

Margarita Bazzano

Enrique Garcia

Victoria Peralta

Maika Lopez

Elias Diaz

Victor Baez

Mabel Causarano

Cristina Guillen

Vicente Morales

Luciano Insaurralde

Cesar Rodas

Sergio Duarte

José Vicente Caballero

Celeste Rodriguez

Ruben Brasa

Johanna Ortega

Celeste Gomez

Rolando Chaparro

Jaime Giménez

Beatriz Ferreira

Rocio Robledo

Ivan Allende

Ana Mello

Raquel Rodriguez

Inés Perrotta

"Pinchi" Cardozo

Oscar Rivas

Goli Olmedo

Rolon yudith

Nicholas Knight

Gerardo Rolon

Juan Bautista Rivarola

Martha Perrotta

Gabriel Espínola

Carlos Ortellado

Maria Luisa Macchi

Eugenia Insaurralde

Juana María González

Esther Navarro

The team of government programs and plan Avanza País, thanks especially the advice of:
Marcello Lachi
Armando De Negri Filho
Alfredo Serrano Mancilla
[144]

[145]

SCHEDULE 3

[146]
