PARAGUAY ALLIANCE ALEGRE

THANKS
The realization of this Agenda Government of Paraguay Alegre Alliance
It was possible thanks to the valuable contribution, knowledge, experience and effort
many Paraguayans have long been working in the fields
social, economic, environmental and management of our country and that
belong to both the public sector and the social, business sectors,
union, cultural and academic.
It is a work of participatory development, based on the conformation
Sectoral Technical Teams and implementation of Thematic Forums
Citizens today allow us to present our vision
Paraguay Alegre.
With great satisfaction for the work done express our
effusive thanks to each and every one of the people who were
part of this process and invite all citizens to
participate in the design and construction of Paraguay and Dignity
Development that is people first, First Paraguay !.
Paraguay Alliance Alegre

DATA SHEET
TEAM GOVERNANCE AGENDA
General Coordinator of the crew
Government Agenda


Gonzalo Garay

Executive Coordinator of Government Agenda


Morell Gustavo Morel
Franco Maria Elena Barboza

CHAPTER I - PARAGUAY WORTHY
Peña Nieto Pacita
Gabriel Benitez Colnago
Juan Carlos Espinola
Jorge Garcia
Alexandra Bogarín
Cesar Cano
Rodolfo Elias
Marlene Fleitas
Romina Martinez
Juan Felix Bogado Gondra
Edgar Gimenez
Alejandro Mazacotte
Antonio Arbo
Hugo Odonne
Magdalena Ayala
Sonia Brucke
Pilar Callizo
Desiree Massi
Noelia Errecarte
José Orue
Rafael Filizzola
Elvio Segovia

CHAPTER II - PARAGUAY HAPPY
Guillermo Caballero Vargas
Efrain Alegre
Diego Zavala
Jose Luis Salomon
Nicanor Invernizzi
Enzo Cardozo
Idalina Gómez
Celso Keneddy
Daniel Campos
Jose Avalos
Carlos Peralta
Victor Gonzalez Acosta
Cesar Lopez Bossio
Guillermo Lopez Flores
Roger Monte Domecq
José Tomás Rivarola

Jorge Vergara
Germán Sunday Fatecha
Pedro Echeverria
Miguel Rivarola
Luis Maria Fleitas
Manuel Cardenas
Pantaleon Ramos Centurion
Emilio Boungermini
Marcio Schumuller

CHAPTER III - PARAGUAY GREEN
Rodrigo Mussi
Silvia Spinzi
Fredys Genez
Ulises Lovera
Graciela Miret
Liza Ayala
Federico Schroeder
Gloria Granado

CHAPTER IV - PARAGUAY EFFICIENT
Victor Jacinto Arrow
Arnaldo Giuzzio
Alejandro Nissen
José Casañas Levi
Juan Alberto Khon
Humberto Baez Infante
Benitez Florentin
Carlos Alberto González
Jorge Seal Sasiain
Diego Abente Brunn
Claudia Guanes
Ruben Ocampo

TABLE OF CONTENTS
COUNTRY VISION
VALUES

• Freedom
• Equality
• Justice
• Solidarity
• Stewardship
• Equity
• Pluralism
• Tolerance

PRINCIPLES

• Democracy
• Human rights
• Sustainable development
• Gender equality
• State of rights
• secular state
• Governance
• Social inclusion
• Citizen participation
• active and responsible civil society

PROJECTIONS OF THE GENERAL BUDGET OF THE NATION (PGN)

STRATEGIC AXES

CHAPTER I - PARAGUAY WORTHY

SOCIETY AND EQUITY
• Human Rights as a center for public policy of the Alliance Paraguay
Cheerful
• Decent work and secure
• Security
• Bless you
• Children and Adolescents
• Woman
• Youth
• Older adults
• People with disabilities
• Indigenous Peoples
• Strengthening citizen participation
• Culture
• Sports and Recreation
• Justice

CHAPTER II - PARAGUAY HAPPY

ECONOMY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT
• Poverty Reduction in Investment, Economic Growth and
Job Creation.
• Law of Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Discipline
• To advance the industrialization of the country
• Industrialization Policy Commodities
• Industrial Parks Development and Energy Policy
• Public Investment Plan: Infrastructure, Housing, Education
Job Creation
• Feasibility and Financing Sources
• Job Creation
• Infrastructure
• MSMEs
• Microfinance: Access to credit for MSMEs
• Rural Development and Land Reform
• Access and Land Legalization
• Development and support family farming and Security
Food.
• Restoration and rebalancing of Agrosistemas
• Agricultural Production
• Zoning
• Credit
• Market
• Urban Development. Sustainable Cities
• The Housing Deficit of Paraguay: Integrated Housing Programs
Social Interest.
• Research, Development and Innovation (R + D¬ + i)
• Energy
• Public Private Partnership - PPP
• Tourism

CHAPTER III - PARAGUAY GREEN

ENVIRONMENT AND NATURAL RESOURCES
• Development and Land Management
• Water resources
• Renewable energy
• Biodiversity
• Forests
• Climate change. Desertification, Drought and Land Degradation.
• Cordilleras, hills and elevations
• Mineral resources
• Solid Waste and Chemical Substances
• Environmental education
• Disaster Risk Reduction
• Sustainable Production and Consumption
• Environmental Diplomacy
• Integrated Socio Economic Development of the Paraguayan Chaco

CHAPTER IV - PARAGUAY EFFICIENT

MANAGEMENT AND MODERNIZATION OF THE STATE
• Brand Country
• Modernization of the State
• Integration and Foreign Affairs
• Quality Processes and Electronic Government
• State Decentralization
• Integrity and Transparency
• Reform of Judicial System in Paraguay

A NATION THAT
WHERE TO INCLUDE ALL
THE RED, WHITE AND BLUE
Be first because
PEOPLE ARE FIRST.
PARAGUAY FIRST.

Agenda 2013-2018
To my dear compatriots:
This Agenda is the Government shows that, with a shared vision of the country, it is possible to reinvent
Paraguay, based on a model of sustainable development that involves commitment and teamwork,
boosting an economy and growth go hand in hand with social and environmental. This new
Paraguay, the Paraguay of development is possible.
The Alegre Paraguay is the country's growth, values, word, family, inclusion of
all work. Recovery of dignity and development for all.
A Worthy Paraguay, Paraguay A Prospero A Green Paraguay Paraguay Efficient and A are the four
axes articulated in a comprehensive and systemic way this government's agenda. They are mutually reinforcing
and interweaving the roles and responsibilities of all public administration in conjunction with
social organizations, the private business sector, professional associations and academia.
Each strategic axis shows the complex reality of our country, a reality with which we are
committed for some time and so we are convinced that if we work together we can
transform it.
Poverty is fought with employment, solidarity, creating better opportunities for all. In
the public, ensuring the physical and legal for creating sources of employment security. In private,
offering conditions and guarantees to enable them to produce and work in peace. This is an obligation
delegated State.
Inequity find us working for a quality education, with better conditions,
increasing opportunities for specialized and technical training, and expanding access to
new technologies. With first class training for our teachers to be certified
permanently and scholarships for outstanding students.
The development of our environment is innovative and modern, ruled by an efficient and
environmental institutions reformed, with an improved legal framework and proposing priority
achieve financial sustainability for effective environmental management.
To address citizen insecurity and organized crime will fight vigorously against
thereof. With development, guarantee jobs and overcome the image of the country linked to the illegal,
smuggling, evasion, instability in the country. We will deepen the changes in the Police
National Armed Forces and with modernization, with higher technology and scientific capabilities
and greater operational capacity. And let's face corruption decades we have inherited.
All these actions are possible from a government administration that is transparent and efficient
take care to ensure freedom for all its citizens.
I want that together build a Paraguay which we can all be proud. A Paraguay
productive, without inequality and opportunity for all. A Paraguay who is respected in the
The whole world.
PARAGUAY FIRST!

THE NEED TO WAKE UP
NEW PARAGUAY TO THE PAST
HEARTS IN TIME dozes
HEROES OF CIVILIANS IN THE FIGHT
FREEDOM AND SHINES
IN DREAMS OF ALL
CITIZENSHIP WITH VISION OF CHANGE.

Government Agenda 2013-2018

COUNTRY VISION
On 14 and 15 May 1811 the Paraguay took a huge leap in its constitution as
Nation with the exploits of their national independence, whose bicentennial we have just commemorated.
A very festive and of great significance to the commemoration Paraguay. It was as if the old roots
Paraguayan identity reverdecieran everywhere. No one was outside the party evocation. A
desire for unity under the colors of the national flag could be felt.
This year 2013, the Paraguay held another major event in its history: the Bicentennial
its constitution as a Republic, established on October 12, 1813, for an integrated Congress
1,100 assembly members. All chosen freely in all the villages, cities and towns
country and arrived in Asuncion part of the Congress, whose number is never repeated in our
country- to declare that Paraguay was an independent, free and sovereign country, no strings attached
Spain, Buenos Aires, Portugal -today Brazil or any other country. Paraguay was the first country in
become a republic in the whole region of South America and since then we are a Republic
independent, free and sovereign.
Today, Paraguay, two hundred years of that sovereign statement, requires a radical change
structural: a real revolution, a state administrative system innovation, a change
economic, social, political and cultural structure, a renewal of paradigms to
use new comparative advantages offered by the world today. You need to build a country
modern, efficient, competitive, daring, transgressor of old patterns and habits, capable of
inserted competitively in the globalized world economy and gain advantages and benefits
it. We need to sprout new Paraguay that has long slumbering in the hearts
civilian heroes in the struggle for freedom and shining in the dreams of all citizens
visionary change.
PARAGUAY ALLIANCE ALEGRE, Alegre is not only by name but it contains in its
Essentially the joy of life, the hope of tomorrow. The Alliance is ALEGRE PARAGUAY PARAGUAY
Reinvented assumed the challenge of running with the people and with the people, to take the big leap
to turn a country without work, with a very sharp socio-economic differentiation, with
very large sector of the population in poverty, with deficiencies in education and
health, with fragile public safety, public institutions with high levels of corruption and
inefficiency, to one in which a government policy that are premised is put in place
essential to create the conditions so that everyone can have a decent job with a
dynamic economy able to achieve growth that benefits the country and citizenship
social policy that prioritizes the welfare of the people, granting security and is made effective
right to free access to health and education. An agricultural policy that ensures the rational
land occupation with inclusive benefits. Seeking industrial development of the country and
ensure the care and improvement of the environment. A relentless struggle against organized crime and to
the mafia, corruption, looting of public coffers. All within the framework of the rule of
Right, with individual and social freedom, to achieve a legal country, dignity and development.
The Paraguay that we all dream and we have to build among all people, to make
Tajy flourish, sacred tree of the Guarani, in the chest of every citizen.
It is the transformation of a country caught in the middle of the South American Continent
another who is the center of the continental opening. To become the strategic center
interrelationship of all avenues of communication between the two oceans, the Atlantic and the
Pacific. And from there as to project to the world and integrate regional blocs,
for us to supplement us with the world. We have to overcome mediocrity and achieve
excellence in national affairs. We like the challenge of designing and building large
infrastructure of communication, such as roads, electric railways, waterways,
air routes and airports to achieve our goal to become the strategic center
continental integration, with high levels of quality in logistics.
PARAGUAY ALLIANCE ALEGRE, as of 1813 ASSEMBLY, invites all citizens, without
any economic, political, cultural, social, ethnic, religious or gender discrimination, to build
the Paraguay we want. PARAGUAY ALLIANCE ALEGRE calls for participation in large
Citizen Assemblies to be organized in all departments of the Republic. Calls
children, adolescents, the elderly and the elderly, all without any exclusion. They

17

Government Agenda 2013-2018

invites all people that they take the floor, to express their feelings, expose
their problems and together, look for the type or form of solutions could be found to
difficulties of the people. We have to visualize together PARAGUAY we want to contribute with
our own experiences, an active part in the design of public policies, taking
turn commitments communities, municipal governments, governments
Departmental and national government. ALLIANCE ALEGRE allow construction PARAGUAY
the country we want, that at that time of hardship and embarrassment, let us have joy and
proud to be Paraguayan, in a coexistence of peace, harmony and development.
We think that a process of this nature is not born by spontaneous generation nor builds
as disjointed sum of individual actions or improvisations. Citizenship has
the responsibility to change absolutely the idea that enlightened leaders provide the
people solutions. The involvement of everyone in the building is a NEW PARAGUAY
itself the most revolutionary thing can aspire. An agreed strategy not only among all
political, technical, economic, ideological, cultural and religious, but thought sectors, projected,
built and implemented by all stakeholders in the new Paraguayan PARAGUAY.
PARAGUAY ALEGRE ALLIANCE invites all citizens to we face
together the challenge of creating the PARAGUAY THE CENTURY, by a process based on the
PARTICIPATION COMPORMISOS agreements and all actors that make our country,
so to take advantage of this unique and historic opportunity we now have in your hands.

18

Government Agenda 2013-2018

19

WITH DEMOCRATIC STATE
Full guarantees WITH
ACTIVE CIVIL SOCIETY AND
RESPONSIBLE AND AN ECONOMY
PROGRESSIVE SOCIAL.

Government Agenda 2013-2018

VALUES AND PRINCIPLES OF GOVERNMENT
The values ​​and principles, understood as ideal goals and models of social organization are
essential elements for a political project in the perspective of building a State
With full democratic guarantees, with an active and responsible civil society and an economy
progressive social.
This set of values ​​and principles give meaning and content to the policy proposal ALLIANCE
PARAGUAY ALEGRE.
Alliance aims to translate these values ​​and principles intelligent public policies,
serious and concrete. And, based on them, working to continue managing the construction
a sovereign, inclusive, participatory, efficient, modern, democratic fairly PARAGUAY
social, seeking to overcome poverty and create work, dearrollo DIGNITY AND FOR ALL
CITIZENSHIP.

21

Government Agenda 2013-2018

VALUES
FREEDOM
Freedom is the ability and power of the individual to decide and act as they choose,
provided they do not harm others. For a harmonious coexistence in society, freedom
Individual requires certain restrictions, namely freedom is conceived as a right
accompanied by responsibility towards society. For freedom to be real people should
access to public goods and have the guarantee of a decent life.

EQUALITY
Equality means that every human person is guaranteed equal treatment before the law and that
Expect the same conditions and opportunities for the development of all its capabilities and
potential to ensure their own development. It is ensuring equal participation, without any
discrimination, of all people in political, economic, social and cultural processes.

JUSTICE
Consubstanciación justice is equality means recognizing and give each human being
His pursuant to the Act. To be effective this value, ensuring people are supposed
the enjoyment of equal access to social welfare regardless of origin,
gender, age, social status, race or religion of the people.

SOLIDARITY

22

Solidarity is responding to the cause of others and act in favor of social welfare, recognizing
the differences and needs of all social groups. Means, in turn, redistribution
wealth and social benefits to all members of society.

RESPONSIBILITY
Stewardship means that all members and social groups share the
social responsibilities. Assumed participation of citizens in the application of policies
public and obligation of governments to account for their actions and transparent processes
administrative and political responsibility. Stewardship requires a balance between
rights and responsibilities.

EQUITY
Equity is the access of all people to equal opportunities and benefits
development, without distinction of any kind. Equity means recognition of diversity
social and eliminating any discriminatory attitude or action.

Pluralism
Pluralism of the recognition that society is plural in their behaviors
cultural, ethnic and lifestyles and concerns the recognition and respect of diversity. Assumes
the recognition that every human group contributes to the realization of the social whole.

TOLERANCE
Tolerance is the basis of democracy as involving respect and accept ideas,
opinions, beliefs and practices of others despite being different or contrary to their own.
Given the plurality of life perspective, this value means developing fully flexible actions
respect for others, ensuring peaceful understanding among people and recognition of
differences and guarantee equal rights. Always within the framework of the law.

Government Agenda 2013-2018

PRINCIPLES
DEMOCRACY
Democracy is understood not only as a political system but as a way of life
social, while includes formal, participatory and social dimensions. As for the dimension
policy regarding the establishment and guarantee of clear rules of competition and participation
election, in a context of political freedom and ensuring that society can be represented
through political parties and civic organizations. The extent of participation
citizen does not deny the formal elements but potentiates, while promoting
participation of citizens in the process of ideation and implementation of public policies. The
full democracy creates the conditions for full inclusion of citizens in management
of the society.

HUMAN RIGHTS
Human rights are inherent to human nature and encompass civil, political,
economic, social and cultural rights. Democracy is inconceivable without the life and guarantee
human rights and it is essential for people to achieve comprehensive development.

SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT
Sustainable development is one that achieves this without sacrificing development opportunities
of future generations to meet their own needs. Is a policy that
ensure a dignified life for people within the constraints imposed by nature.
A search for balance between the exploitation of natural resources and meeting the
human needs. Leads to economic growth, but taking care of the environment and equitable
social.

SOCIAL MARKET ECONOMY
Free market as an efficient form of organization and production to create wealth and
social welfare, but state intervention to amend the economic imbalances and
social inequalities.

GENDER EQUALITY
Gender equality refers to equality of opportunity for inclusion of all people,
both men and women in society, recognizing differences and the needs
of both sexes. This principle calls for the inclusion of women in public affairs and fighting
against all forms of discrimination based on gender.

RULE OF LAW
The rule of law is that state governed by the principle of legality. His performance is
marked by respect and adherence to the laws and institutions that organize society. It's about
a state that protects and guarantees the rights and fundamental freedoms of all persons
and that does not support the abuse of power. The rule of law means complete separation and independence
the powers of the State

SECULAR STATE
The National Constitution of Paraguay designed a separate religious state, assuming the
beginning of the secular state, thus preventing political power it is sustained by a creed
determined. The secular state ensures that all members of society have the right
to live according to their own beliefs, the right to freedom of worship, recognizing as unique
popular sovereignty legitimate authority.

2. 3

Government Agenda 2013-2018

GOVERNANCE
Governance translates the recognition and acceptance by society of sovereignty
power, emerged from fair and transparent elections. It represents a solid rule of law
maintain a healthy balance of powers and a government capable of managing public resources
efficiently and effectively for the benefit of the majority of the population so. Moreover, the principle of
Governance refers to the stability of the political institutions, capacity
to articulate the interests of all stakeholders and the ability to regulate and resolve
conflicts in a peaceful and civilized manner, to ensure political stability and social environment
harmonic, where no violence of any kind.

SOCIAL INCLUSION
Social inclusion is a process that aims to offer everyone opportunities and
resources needed to develop and participate fully in all spheres of life,
inserting in social policy for the most vulnerable social groups such as the poor, the elderly,
the disabled, children, the sick, women, youth or indigenous.

CITIZEN PARTICIPATION
Citizen participation is key in democracy as a means empowerment and
citizen involvement in public affairs, ie citizens
They are capable and have the opportunity to influence the political agenda, in the process making
decisions in the design of projects and programs in the management of resources and oversight
administrative, financial and political behavior of the authorities.

24

ACTIVE CIVIL SOCIETY AND RESPONSIBLE
A participatory is one that is able to commit to building your own
destination, both individually and collectively. This is a free society, which enjoys all
rights but takes responsibility for their actions within the framework required by law.
Fully assume public tasks with responsibility, becoming partners
in political and social processes, have the right to truthful and accurate information to
participate coherently.

Government Agenda 2013-2018

PROJECTIONS OF THE GENERAL BUDGET OF THE NATION (PGN)
Period 2014-2018.
Based on the fact that the annual budget of the year 2013 is $ 3,800 million (excluding
the budgets of decentralized State) and based on an estimated growth
Potential GDP of between 6 and 8% a year on average, the annual budget will grow an average
16% per year, since tax revenue will grow at twice. It is noteworthy that the GDP of the year 2012
It has been USD 25,500 million.
Thus we have the annual estimated budget in this period are:
Year 2014:

USD 4,400 million

2015:

USD 5,100 million

2016:

USD 5,900 million

2017:

USD 6,800 million

2018:

USD 8,000 million

This means that the Government provide directly the sum of USD 30,200
million for expenditure and public investments. This amount comes logically: Income
Tax, Loan, non-tax revenue and grants.
Allocation amounts to 4 Axis Government Agenda.
Of this, the Project Paraguay Alegre, can spend on an estimated basis, taking account of
a realistic and possible budget structure of our country and watching the rigid expenditures and
the economic-Services for each of the strategic priorities of the Government's Agenda
following amounts:
PARAGUAY I. WORTH / Society and Equity:

USD 19,328 (64%)

II. PARAGUAY HAPPY / Economy and Sustainable Development:

USD4530 (15%)

III.PARAGUAY GREEN / Environment and Natural Resources:

USD 2,416 (8%)

IV. PARAGUAY EFFICIENT / Management Modernization of the State:

USD 1,510 (5%)

These figures do not include other possible sources of additional funding for different
specific projects that can come from operations by PPP (approx. USD 2,000 million)
Loans of Financial Development Agencies, sovereign bond issuance or grants.

25

OVERCOMING POVERTY
HAND OF SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT,
ECONOMIC AND ENVIRONMENTAL THROUGH
JOB CREATION AND
Quality education.

Government Agenda 2013-2018

Chapter I
PARAGUAY WORTHY
Society and Equity
PARAGUAY ALLIANCE ALEGRE, Government proposes an agenda whose main objective
overcoming poverty in the hand of a Social, Economic and Environmental Development by
job creation and quality education.
Achieving good health, have a good education, a decent job, live safely
and guarantees respect for human, social, economic, civil, political,
cultural and religious aspects are essential for the development of equitable and Paraguay
social justice.
Construction of Citizenship in the full exercise of their rights and duties, participation,
prosperity, economic and social development as a constant reality is what mobilizes
Paraguay Alegre alliance to present a proposal that works synergistic policies articulated
with all sectors: public, political, social, business, the trade union, academic and
international cooperation.
The countries making progress in its development are companies that work for better opportunities
for its citizens. From this strategic focus we will promote the installation of public policy
so that these opportunities reach all Paraguayan children, adolescents, young adults,
elderly, indigenous people, disabled people, men and women alike.
Special attention to social spending will, some of the main programs:
• Aging Act
• Tekoporã
• Program Tekoha
• Programs Malnutrition
Also in regard to education spending, for which, among other things, will be implemented
two funds:
• Fund for Excellence in Education and Research ($ 96 million per year)
• Municipalities and Governorates Fund (USD 40 million annually)
A massive project of creating decent work, which is that employment will be implemented
that is dignified, formal, that has social coverage, according to the UN definition. The goal
It is to reach 50% of workers with Social Security coverage. Today it is around 18%.
This will automatically mean a big reduction in social expenditures of the State
Public health. This will be creating a very efficient system of public health and high quality
considering that to achieve this goal achieved self-financing.
The education system will be based on the program One Laptop per Child. This has a
cost of USD 500 million: 200 in connectivity and 300 computers. The National Fund
Excellence in Education and Research will ensure funding of $ 96 million
FONACIDE year through.
The increase in social investment, transparency and managing for results will features
central government of Paraguay Alegre Alliance.
Following the strategic lines of this axis are presented.

29

Government Agenda 2013-2018

HUMAN RIGHTS AS A PUBLIC POLICY CENTER
PARAGUAY ALLIANCE ALEGRE
Convene the public to promote the development and strengthening of a culture of peace,
tolerance, respect and full enjoyment of human rights based on a democratic society
and participatory, ensuring human freedoms without exclusion or discrimination of any
type, and the enjoyment of a decent life with full economic, social and cultural rights
cultural (ESC) rights for all people in our country and in the Americas.
To address this challenge, we will develop the National Human Rights Plan approved
Decree no. 10,747 of the executive branch of government policies on Human Rights and
its implementation will ensure:
• Government support.
• A broad national participation: partnership between governmental and non-
government and civil society.
• The transparency of operations: responsibility, dissemination, promotion of public property
in the initiative, monitoring and evaluation.
• The amplitude, with respect to socialization / dissemination.
• The long-term sustainability.
• The effectiveness with regard to the strategies.
• Attention to equal both the process and content of the plan.
• Promote the universality, independence and indivisibility of human rights, including
civil and political, economic, social and cultural rights and the right to development.

30

• To encourage the ratification of international treaties on human rights and facilitate
implementation of international standards at the national level.
• Encourage reporting under the international treaties
human rights.
• Establish or strengthen national and local human rights institutions.
• Take steps to establish national programs for the promotion and protection of
human rights in order to increase domestic resources.
• Increased protection of vulnerable groups, especially people living with
HIV and AIDS, people with disabilities, adults / older and as domestic workers, ensuring
that effective measures be taken to address the situation.
• Promote diversity of sources, approaches, methodologies and institutions in the field of
human rights.
• Improve and promote cooperation between government agencies, organizations do not
government and civil society.
• To integrate a gender perspective in all human rights activities.
• Recognize the importance of human rights to democracy, sustainable development,
legality, the environment and peace.
• Recognize the role of human rights as a strategy for preventing violations
of those rights.
• Promoting non-discrimination and equality.
• Encourage the analysis of new issues on human rights.
ALLIANCE priority is PARAGUAY ALEGRE creating an instance of high rank in the State
Paraguay, specializing in Human Rights that:
• Impulse compliance with international commitments, monitor and make official reports,
relate to human rights bodies and civil society.
• Use a suitable, honest and committed to human rights in instances people
as the Public Ministry and the Ombudsman.

Government Agenda 2013-2018

• Give effect to the recommendations of the Report of the Commission for Truth and Justice, that the
Paraguayan State to prevent impunity for human rights violations committed during
dictatorship and recognition and provide reparations to victims and recommendations
International organizations.

JOBS AND SECURE
PARAGUAY ALEGRE for the alliance is essential to create, from the government, the conditions
promote dignified and decent work for all, while we believe that decent work and
Decent is essential for the welfare of people.
We recognize that poverty eradication, full and productive employment and work
decent work for all, social integration and protection are interrelated and mutually reinforcing
each other, and to be created enabling environments to promote them at all levels.
The dignified and decent work is a policy that articulates all the elements to
realize the dignity of workers. A policy of creating job opportunities
investment, jobs and decent and sustainable ways of living for workers.
Job creation through investment and the development of social and economic infrastructure
strong, effective and efficient production capacity and to achieve sustainable development and
sustained, inclusive and equitable economic growth.
Since the Alliance propose ALEGRE PARAGUAY
• Build effective policies that guarantee the right to decent and dignified work, prioritizing
those investments involving job creation and growing demand satisfaction
same.
• extend social protection, creating the conditions to allow both male and
women enjoy the same rights under the same productivity and to
provide adequate free time and rest, claiming the family and social values ​​and
allowing social insurance for all.
• It will seek to promote job training for the defendant, at local and regional level, as
to ensure the rooting of youth in their communities and thereby discourage internal migration
and outside thereof.

Governance and Security
Inner peace must be consolidated by reducing poverty and ensuring social development, as
also apocando capacity operations of organized crime in all its
modalities, dealing with international smuggling of drugs, weapons, machinery,
wood to people; as well as organized criminals, even over those
arrogate the causes of people becoming their own executioners.
For which, as a key factor, we will arrange between government a national cause
fight against crime to raise the security in our homes, in our neighborhoods,
in our streets, in our workplaces and in our public spaces.
The insecurity is closely linked to social inequality and the rise of crime
organized and narco-politics in Paraguay. We must be aware of this.
We will address the causes of crime addressing the social needs of our
needy, protecting the family and ensuring job opportunities and compatriots
education for all.
Legal certainty is a fundamental element in this regard is fundamentally a power
Free from political interference court. We will end the complicity between political power and the
crime.
Achieving security and peace in our country is one of the important issues of our
proposal, we have learned that we must attack to the crime and with the same intensity
also the causes of crime. To do our strategic lines are:

31

Government Agenda 2013-2018

• Continue the process of modernization and dignity of the National Police, with investments in
training, decent wages, technology, intelligence and above all prevention strategies.
• Institutionalize the security forces, professionalisation, better training and more
equipped with a system of continuous training and comprehensive monitoring of its work, enabling
techniques and best results in combating crime.
• Develop crime prevention programs.
• Strengthen community trust with the police to work reciprocally
relying primarily on modern surveillance technology and communication.

F.F.A.A.
Without fear of the armed forces OF THE NATION PARAGUAY they have an organization
inherited the context of the Cold War, and these are outdated in their environment
strategic and it is now radically different at the time of bipolarity and
therefore I think it is necessary or urgent to be transformed in the organizational structure,
combining the needs and capacities, with the real possibilities of the Paraguayan State
adapt to an increasingly dynamic technological development.
Since the advent of democracy, the armed forces have undergone a process of degradation
constant in terms of its operational capacity, due to the socio political situation
and lack of modernization and transformation plans and a poor conscription
not allowing him to capture enough staff for training a reservation
if instructed that the country needed.

32

It is therefore essential to define concepts such as modernization, transformation, reorganization,
restructuring, rationalization etc., so to clearly define axes which are
action to be developed together with the technocrats in this field are
military.
Any reorganization will necessarily be carried out by progressive stages
primarily serving the prerequisites that represent the structural reform,
the favorable economic development as the prevailing factor and that the device
military should be seen as a systemic structure of the state for the sole purpose that it
entrusted to the armed forces.
It must also say that in assuming this task of reorganization, modernization,
MILITARY TRANSFORMATION and rationalization, is to be performed using models already made
in neighboring countries, but with the conviction that those, to respond to other national realities
and other needs, may not have a similar application to our national reality so
is imposed propose its own paradigm and characteristics of our nation and its rich past
history and show the world that progress is possible towards the institutionalization and professionalization
modern military, relying largely and firstly, the ability of our own
human resources and means available, provided these are rationally used without
ignore the undoubted utility that represents external assistance and cooperation.
Paraguay has the need to reorganize its armed forces in order to achieve a more modern institution,
flexible and professional adjusted to new times to use it in the effective implementation and
efficient of their constitutional mission, and subsidiaries missions and to honor commitments
subscribed to international organizations and fora.
The transformation of the armed forces of the nation with the premise SHOULD DO
FOLLOWING STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES
THE REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY IN TERMS OF NATIONAL DEFENSE be underpinned first
the availability of a large capacity trading DIPLOMATIC (foreign policy
PLANNED AND FOREIGN FIRM)
In the early detection of threats against national interests, (INTELLIGENCE SERVICE
NATIONAL)
In the immediate reaction capacity of National Defense System and maintenance
a permanent and sufficiently flexible military force that can guarantee an answer
adequate and timely, in the case of insufficient or ineffective peaceful means requiring

Government Agenda 2013-2018

the country to use military force as a last resort to exercise self-defense .art
144 of the Constitution "The Republic of Paraguay renounces war but supports the
principle of legitimate defense. "
The attitude assumed by the Paraguay for its defense is based on the adoption of a non-aggressive posture,
yes deterrent and prone to respect and support the international order and its values, framed within
the provisions of the Constitution and the commitments undertaken by the country as a member of
the United Nations (UN), the Organization of American States (OAS)
as part of integration agreements and other bilateral and multilateral agreements signed by the
Republic of Paraguay.
BASIC PREMISES FOR TRANSFORMATION
Any model of modernization should contemplate the regulations, historical tradition,
international commitments of the country and the challenges of the century to come.
The model of modernization should be started from the determination of certain premises
basic, given that the development and evolution of the military apparatus to the
processing must necessarily occur in gradual manner compatible with the following
determinants:
• The structural reform.
• Compliance with the constitutional mission.
• The harmonious development of Singular Forces components.
• The development of a joint employment doctrine.
• Emerging new missions for the institution.
• The availability of state resources.
Strategic Goals
Between these two extremes frameworks should be established strategic goals that will make a
called evolution, according to the priorities set. Thus you have identified
the following:
The Armed Forces 2018
Short-Term Objectives
The objectives in the Short Term shall:
• Ensure capacity deterrent force to counter effectively any threat
in the internal or external environment.
• To enable the armed forces to meet international commitments of the country.
• Prioritize strategic defensive attitude and presence throughout the national territory (space
land, river and air).
• Ensure the availability of an item of high operability, capable of responding
immediate cyclical emerging threats.
• Develop a system of intelligence of the Armed Forces covering the entire spectrum
Operational thereof.
• Encourage the development of a military industry that meets the supply of inputs
consumption of the Armed Forces (ammunition of all types, hand grenades, artillery shells
etc.)
• Develop a plan of investment in research and development of new technologies
encourage the development of a national defense industry.
• Develop a compensation plan for investment in defense.
Basic Lines for Transformation
AA for modernization, FF should address the following basic lines:
• Adoption of modern and light organizational structures.
• Low creating new military organizations.

33

Government Agenda 2013-2018

• Disable or conversion of existing military organizations
• part of the equipment and combat techniques Modernization.
• Phasing professional cash. (Troops)
• more permanent, professional and motivated personnel.
• Priority for training and retraining of cadres (officers and Official Sub).

EDUCATION
Our Agenda Government sees education as a fundamental human right,
essential to exercise all other rights. With our proposals we are committed
to deliver and ensure a quality education to reach all the Paraguayan population and
this translates into a better quality of life for people.
Proposals for education are aimed at strengthening the education system
National as a public good, as a fundamental and inalienable human right guaranteed
the Constitution so as to generate the appropriate conditions to improve quality, the
efficiency and coverage of Paraguayan education, ensuring equal opportunities for
access, retention and timely completion of the various populations without discrimination
of any kind and with special attention to populations most vulnerable.
Three fundamental principles: the right to education, intercultural learning and the
lifetime. These three concepts are closely linked and constitute a framework of
Reference to guide educational policies and actions in Paraguay.

3. 4

The concern for the rights to education and equity in education in Paraguay, split
recognition mechanisms that have historically discriminated against and excluded children
the school system, many of which are still in force. They are related to
socioeconomic status, language, gender, belonging to certain cultural groups, among others.
Educational exclusion also linked to the economic and social dynamics in the country, such
as poverty situations, conditions and characteristics of families, migration processes.
Different forms of discrimination are reflected in repetition, over-age, attrition and low
and poor learning outcomes for employment.
Multiculturalism, which results in intercultural education part of valuing diversity
in Education, which can be a strategic area of ​​action oriented to overcome
situations of exclusion or marginalization of certain social groups, creating a new landscape
policies and school projects. In the educational field of intercultural education in Latin America
bilingual and are closely related to the progress made by the movements Revindication
indigenous peoples. "An intercultural school is a space that allows you to interact with others
different, although the otherness construction is often conflicting. " (Ana Vitar, 2010)
Finally, another fundamental concept is that of learning throughout life that believes that
educational experience and learning take place at all stages of human life
(From birth to death), in formal, non-formal and informal and
should promote appropriate to each stage of life educational experiences. Three large
dimensions to be considered when talking about learning throughout life are: a)
learn to make a contribution through work; b) learn to be part of a
community from building networks and social relations c) learn to develop
as an individual in terms of resilience, confidence, sense of identity and control over their
own life. (McNair, 2009)
Note that since the Alliance PARAGUAY ALEGRE, we will prioritize Integral Development
Early Childhood, driving a National Plan to make visible and address the needs postponed
of children linked to the promotion and protection of their legitimate rights identity
civil, health, nutrition and education. From the education sector and will promote articulated work
coordinated with institutions guaranteeing the rights of Early Childhood, the private sector and
civil society for the operation of networks of local services, with special attention to the
most vulnerable populations
In this context, the Ministry of Education and Culture has developed and is implementing the "Plan
National Education 2024 - Towards the Centenary of the New School of Ramón Indalecio Cardozo "
in this document projected to 15 years Paraguay's education policies were outlined, although it is

Government Agenda 2013-2018

It is known that the development of public policy, in any sector, involves accompaniment
various governments in a continuous and systematic process to achieve results and impacts
expected for the country. We believe that the current National Education Plan clearly reflects
relevance and objectives and strategic priorities that must be followed, and the indicators and targets
corresponding to each period of government.
To recognize education as a fundamental human right, in the preparation of this
Government agenda have been considered the following key variables:
• The government's obligation to ensure that there are institutions, physical resources, personnel and
adequate educational programs.
• That education is accessible to everyone without discrimination.
• The State should ensure that institutions have basic standards for teaching and
learning.
• The quality of education related to the needs, interests and expectations of the various
communities.
At the start of governance will be an evaluation of the National Plan of Education and
respective programs and projects in order to know how much progress has been made and that actions must
adjusted or incorporated intensified to strengthen implementation.
Clearly one of the main weaknesses for improving the quality and coverage
Education is the ability of management plan, programs and projects, as well as breach
the various regulations established in the educational sector. In that sense, they will strengthen the
planning, monitoring and evaluation to achieve more efficient management and
cash plan, programs and projects, also backing itself effective compliance with the
legal provisions guaranteeing the rights and obligations of all the parties within the
National educative system.

35
Our proposals for education are based on the enhancement and improvement of
actions related to the following strategic guidelines:
Reorganization and expansion of educational opportunities
• Expansion and diversification of educational offerings for Early Education, School Education
Basic, Secondary Education and Lifelong Learning. (Strengthen Double Schooling Program;
Learning Strengthening Equalization) Strategy.
• Design, expansion and consolidation of differentiated education educational offerings
populations most vulnerable, particularly indigenous populations, populations
unfavorable economic conditions and populations with different educational needs.
• Design, expansion and consolidation of educational offerings for the integral development of the first
childhood.
• Creating an Early Childhood Council, to promote the timely action, coordinated
and articulated between institutions guaranteeing the National System of Integral Protection and Promotion
Childhood and Adolescence, with comprehensive and inclusive approach.
• Creating cutting-edge learning spaces in formal and non-formal education focused
conducive to the child's cognitive development.
• Strengthening and expansion of scholarship programs, national and international student
outstanding and economically disadvantaged.
Strengthening populations compensatory programs aimed at at-
vulnerability in coordination with other sectors
• Expansion and sustainability of subsidies (grants, nutritional supplements, among others)
low-income students in coordination with other sectors.
• Application support programs aimed at students of BSE, Media Education, the
Continuing Education, with educational risk, for example, those with low performance
academic, about age, repetition.

Government Agenda 2013-2018

• Implementation of programs to help promote the demand for education and income
appropriate in different educational levels and modalities.
Improving and expanding educational space, equipment and teaching resources
in coordination with governments, municipalities and other actors
• Overhaul, adequacy and / or construction of educational facilities in line with the
requirements of the population / educational opportunities and quality standards previously defined.
• Endowment according to the requirements of the population / educational opportunities and furnishings
predefined quality standards.
• Provision of teaching and technological resources to educational institutions, students and
educators / as according to the requirements of the population / educational opportunities and standards
as previously defined.
• Institutionalization of practices aimed at systematic maintenance of educational spaces,
equipment and materials.
Reform of the Technical and Vocational Education to improve competitiveness
• Development of the regulatory framework to ensure the proper implementation of education
vocational.
• Design and implementation of the system of vocational education, according to the
context requirements, pedagogical standards and specific area; that contributes to
development of the country and guarantee the personal and professional development of citizens,
and their access to the labor market.

36

• Organizational restructuring to manage vocational education according to
new designed system.
• Coordination between the different institutions and agencies that offer training programs
technical - professional (MEC, HNS, SINAFOCAL and others).
• Cooperation with private companies to generate jobs.
Strengthening participation in educational management
• Strengthening of citizen participation, from their role in the promotion,
organization, implementation and evaluation of school projects.
• Promotion, coordination and joint educational activities with governments, municipalities,
other ministries and civil society.
• Promotion of educational autonomy in coordination with governments, municipalities and civil society.
• Strengthening and installation spaces and organizational forms of participation in the institutions
education such as school boards, student centers, associations of educators,
school cooperative associations, school teams and institutional management.
Improving the management of financial resources.
• Promotion of actions that contribute to increase the education budget in relation to
General Budget of the Nation (PGGN) and GDP
• Identification and recruitment of new sources of internal and external funding for programs
specific (provision of learning resources, building infrastructure, scholarships, research
and others).
• consultations with the private sector to expand the social responsibility actions aimed
education.
• Development of a model of participatory budget formulation and execution, transparent and
gradually by geographical department.

Government Agenda 2013-2018

• Improvement of financial management procedures to provide in a timely manner of the
resources necessary for the implementation of programs and educational projects.
• Allocation and reallocation of budgetary resources according to strategic priorities
defined on the basis of this plan and emerging needs.
• Establishment of Education Investment Plans in Municipalities and Governorates for use
National Development Fund and Public Investment (FONACIDE).
Improving the management of the education system
• Inserting the best teachers in schools in unfavorable contexts.
• Promoting pedagogical leadership of principals.
• Development and enactment of legal framework containing criteria and indicators and ensure
implementation of performance appraisal system.
• Design and implementation of a career plan for teachers and evaluation system
performance.
• Implementation of Policy Information Technologies and Communication Technologies (ICTs) in the
educational projects. (Universalize the program "One Laptop per Child for students
and teachers; promote diversified strategies for incorporation of ICT in the classroom and
community).
• Full incorporation of the systems for evaluating results (achievements and educational processes) and
monitoring learning conditions (school buildings) to provide reliable
and timely information for decision-making in education policy.
• Supervision of the provision of services for the effective monitoring of the availability of resources
physical and time devoted to learning.
• Organizational restructuring of MEC to provide the functionality required for management
efficient.
• Internal reorganization of the Departmental Coordination and Supervision; Reengineering
the geographical distribution of schools and teachers in service.
Strengthening Higher Education
• Development and implementation of a National Plan for Higher Education aligned to the strategy
developing country.
• Raising teacher education at the university level.
• Strengthen the National Agency for Assessment and Accreditation of Higher Education.
• Enactment of laws for the regulation of universities and colleges.
• Accreditation and certification of Public and Private Institutes of Teacher Education.
Strengthening the planning, monitoring and evaluation
• Design and implementation of a monitoring and evaluation of the National Plan of Education.
• Strengthening information systems at central and departmental planning,
implementation and evaluation of the policies implemented in the education sector.
• Capacity for analysis and use of information at the central, departmental
and local levels for decision-making.
• Development of a culture of assessment and accountability for continuous improvement
education, central, departmental and local levels.
• Improve dissemination of educational outcomes of different levels / modes to
central, departmental and local levels for decision-making.
• Promotion of educational research and evaluation as a basis for decision-making and
definition of public policies

37

Government Agenda 2013-2018

• Creation and consolidation of a documentation center containing the digitized
research, statistics, evaluations, regulations and other documents of MEC.

BLESS YOU
Services of health promotion, prevention and care for illnesses are a
important part of the policies of social and economic development and will be implemented
coordination with other sectors for application given territory with interventions
education, rescue of poverty, access to water, sanitation, housing, nutrition, among others.
They introduce reforms to the health system to achieve effective coordination and articulation
to provide comprehensive services and continuous for the entire population. The family-centered care
and the community will be the basis for managing the system and the strengthening of care
specialized hospitals.
Strategically developing human resources in health will be promoted, issue
indispensable for health care reform. To drive this process efficiently
will implement an organizational reform of the Ministry of Health.
Attention will be organized according to the needs of people at different times of
his life. Well designed services will be provided as a service portfolio. Progressively
expand the system of explicit guarantees by events. To provide financial protection to all
National Population Health Fund is activated.
The entire population will ensure the safety and quality of health products, food,
establishments and services through institutional strengthening of the agencies responsible
health surveillance and health.
The National Health Policy synergistically address the following areas:

38

• Impact on social determinants of health
• Development of an integrated network of health services
• Regulation and control.
For this our Government Agenda responds and articulated instruments, strategies and agreements
which can be summarized as follows:
Develop an integrated network of health services - RISS.
• To establish regional technical teams and management committees of health services.
• Further strengthening of Family Health Units (USF), increasing and consolidating
the same to complete the no. and functionality considered optimal, complete Equipment
Family Health of existing USF, improving the response capacity of cases, joint
of USF with hospitals.
• Strengthen hospital: implement the comprehensive care model, definition of the portfolio
service and categorization of hospitals, management training, mentoring, supervision,
management functionality at all levels.
• Develop and consolidate the system of medical regulation, Communication and Transportation
each Health Region.
• Implement and optimize the methodology desk, Reception and Classification (RAC) in all
emergency.
• Continue the development of the priorities of the Health Care Regions.
• Strengthen Regional Logistics and the rational application of medicines.
• Strengthen Regional Strategic Information.
• Strengthen monitoring and comprehensive regional operation.
• Articulate the RISS and the MSP as a whole, with IPS.
Addressing the Social Determinants of Population Health.
• Participate in the definition and implementation of public policies for social development, with the
other ministries.

Government Agenda 2013-2018

• To promote healthy environments and access to water, basic sanitation and adequate food.
• Consolidate Community Aty. Coordinate support of Regional / Local Councils, other
regional authorities and civil society to the Regional Strategic Plans of Regions
Health.
Structural reform of the MSP.
• New Concept in the organizational structure of MOH.
• Structural reform in the level of Health Personnel.
• Regulatory burdens in relation to time and wage increases MAI occurred
since late 2011. Given the situation described above it is proposed process
transformation towards the implementation of a new Comprehensive Care Model (MAI) in
Integrated Health Services Network, based on the continuing work in one place and a
decent pay. For this time the new regulatory burdens conceive that although
still does not solve all the problems described, favors a gradual resource management
humans with a view to the implementation of the Health Career.
• Health Career.
• System for income contests, promotions and appointments.

CHILDREN AND YOUTH
The national policy in the field of Children and Adolescents respect the basic principle established
in a United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, which says Nations: "Recognizing that the
child, for the full and harmonious development of their personality, should grow up in a family,
in an atmosphere of happiness, love and understanding. "
In clear terms will direct attention to families with children or teenagers children,
taking the family line of vulnerability, finding the potential of each family and
offering them the chance of a decent life that can offer the child that atmosphere of happiness
love and understanding in their own family bosom.
Although this is highly generic is a clear paradigm that we should stop marking, which
who they are responsible for the integral development of children are parents and they should
fulfill its role, with the support of the state and its responsabilidadd for the full exercise of the rights
of the kids.
To do our strategic lines are:
• Implement the National Plan of Care for Early Childhood as emblematic Program
Paraguay state for 2020
• Eradicate Practice of Internal People (Maids) Treats.
• Eradicate Child Labour (0-13 years) with social policies that achieve the child's family
out of the poverty belt
• Implement a policy of prevention and care for adolescents with conflict of criminal law; as
priority the opening of the first National Rehabilitation Clinic that can be tracked
the work done in the Detoxification Unit of the Department of Mental Health Ministry
public health.
• Meet the obligation overdue implementation of the National System of Protection
Promoting the Rights of Children and Adolescents promoting the formation of the Councils
Departmental and municipal councils throughout the country.
To do effective work on our strategic lines:
• Planning timeline in implementing the National Plan of Care for Early Childhood
means and progressively and increase investment in childhood.
• Strengthen the institutional framework of the Ministry of Children and Adolescents (as lead agency
and articulation of policies for children) and promote an adequate budget to provide the
our children need care and their families.

39

Government Agenda 2013-2018

• Include the themes of childhood and adolescence-investment, health, education, nutrition and protection-
as priority issues for the Economic and Social Team of government.
• Establish, among the 150 Goals country with the National Plan for Early Childhood, the "Goals
Key "and create plans and programs to achieve the same goals in a setting
implementation schedule. With the other goals, identify those that are correlated and that intelligence,
which they are a priority, making planning and implementation schedule until
2020. This schedule will be declared as emblematic to the same and not to be performed
It can be altered by changes in government.
• Create an institutional body to eradicate trafficking in persons, being essential
the Inter-Agency Board is directed and chaired by a Secretary of State and not a
direction of the Foreign Ministry because treats more common and affecting more children and
Teenage is the Internal trafficking, such as the practice of "servants".
• Creating the National System for the Promotion and Protection of the Rights of the Child. 17
Only 6 departments have the Departmental Council on Children and Adolescents. The
implementation of this instance is assumed by the State in commitment and instruments
international organizations, so that this infrastructure must be made through the
deterrence or coercion to the departmental governments and municipal governments.
• Eradication of child labor.
• Strengthen the Hug program, changing the system of subsidies currently set
for a subsidy to boost not only to comply with the conditions of the cash transfer
But conditional invite families to diversify and formalize their sources of income and
promoting job training.

40

• Achieve coordination with the Social Child Nutrition Programs, First Job, Training
Professional and Schooling, among others, that the beneficiaries have a program Hug
priority access to them.

WOMAN
Despite the historic struggle of Paraguayan women to earn an important place in life
and development of Paraguay, there are conditions of gender asymmetry. That is, there are differences
as the space of power and decision occupying men in Paraguayan society in
political, social, economic, educational and cultural activities. Women continue to occupy a
man subordinate place especially considering the situation of violence against women
In Paraguay.
Since the Alliance consider ALEGRE PARAGUAY Paraguayan women in their various situations
and conditions caused by issues of race, ethnicity, religion, political opinion, national origin or
social, property, marital status, age, disability, sexual orientation, health status and level of
education.
We understand gender as a crosscutting our government's agenda and that
We seek understanding:
• To generate discussion among different sectors of society and the state to generate
assertive action in addressing the issue of gender in all its facets.
• Ensure compliance with the obligations assumed by the State to bodies
International on discrimination and gender.
• Claiming the constitutional right of all Paraguayan women, without discrimination,
enjoy a life free from violence and to exercise equal rights that
They owned by its simple human condition.
Work and Safety
Our strategic lines include actions related to: Work and Safety, Security
Citizens, Health and Education.
• employment and equal employment policies: economic participation of women has
increased significantly, with the increase of the female EAP. Paid work
women, it is essential to lift families out of poverty. In rural areas, participation is
undeniable, but still invisible to the statistics and public policy.

Government Agenda 2013-2018

• Compliance with laws that guarantee the rights of women and men to remuneration
As for equal work; with special attention to the situation of legal discrimination that still have
domestic workers. As the Plan of Equality and Non-Discrimination in the Civil Service
Paraguay among others and III Equalities Plan for Men and Women (2008-2017).
• Insertion of women heads of household and poor rural women in productive chains,
encouraging their training and personal development.
Citizen security
• The right to a life free of violence for women: violence against women,
boys, girls and adolescents and the lack of public security are central concerns.
Especially in regards unpunished crimes against sexual freedom, rape,
domestic violence, sexual harassment and abuse.
• Managing the approval of the "Comprehensive Law on the Prevention, Punishment and Eradication of Violence
against women based on gender asymmetries ", which is being discussed in Congress. The same
It is including appropriate procedures, punitive measures, preventive and rehabilitative character.
Bless you
• The access of women to health system (public and private) generating sustainable policies
access to health services that address gender inequalities.
• The support and investment in health programs for girls and women to help reduce the rate
maternal mortality and promote the Plan of Sexual and Reproductive Health (2009-2013), Plan
National Promotion of the Quality of Life and Health with Equity Adolescents (2010-2015) to
Like the National Program for Prevention and Comprehensive Care for Women, Children and
Adolescents in Situations of Gender-Based Violence, domestic and family (2010-2015).
Education
• Compliance with the Education Act and gender discrimination
guarantees "equality between the sexes and rejection of all forms of discrimination" (art. 10, paragraph e).
• The support through programs and policies of school inclusion of girls and ensure
its permanence in the school system as long as possible. The alliance believes cheerful Paraguay
strongly that educating a girl or a woman is to educate a home and a new generation of men
and women who look from a gender equality perspective and inclusiveness.
• The prevention of sexual abuse and the right to a life free of violence.

YOUTH
The National Youth Policy will focus from the paradigm of youth as an actor
strategic development, where politics must be coordinated across sectors, aimed at
incorporation of youth as human capital and social capital development.
The principles on which youth policy is built are:
Equality and fairness
Equal and universal access to human rights through a fair removal
social vulnerabilities, taking into account the diversity of social subjects, conditions
materials and specific symbolic.
Diversity and inclusion
The diversity of subjects implies a significant variety of experiences, aspirations and
perceptions that should be considered, respected and valued as a component
the collective social heritage, regardless of age, gender, race or ethnicity, status
socioeconomic, sexual orientation, religious or political beliefs.
Intra- and intergenerational solidarity
The actions and implemented by the National Youth Policy aim at creating
positive impacts on the quality of life of all youth groups in the country, as well as other
age groups, particularly children and adolescents. They also promote dialogue
between adults and youth and intergenerational dialogue.

41

Government Agenda 2013-2018

Mainstreaming
Youth is a categorization that exceeds The age definition and permeates various and distinct
thematic areas (social development, population, environment, strategies to combat
poverty, health, education and others).
Sustainability
The national youth policy is conceived as a state policy, which means their stay in
time. For this purpose its design is wide, which will adjust policies to changing
situations of national, regional and international context. Sustainability means not only conditions
financial economic but requires institutional, cultural, social and political.
Subsidiarity
Decision making and implementation of the National Youth Policy are as close as possible
youth groups and other civil society organizations, combining the efficient use of
resources and achieving results and strengthening democratic institutions.
The strategies are as follows:
• Build and strengthen administrative units in different areas of the state, according to the
social and institutional conditions that act as promoters of mainstreaming
youth perspective and joint efforts on the exercise of the rights of young people.
Youth and administrative units in the Vice Ministry, Governments and Municipalities
will be executive arms of the National Youth Policy.
• To inform, sensitize and train public authorities and officials as well as leaders and
promoters and social organizations in the private sector on the subject of youth,
and cross-generational changes character.

42

• Contribute to expanding the coverage and improving the quality of education, with emphasis
the expansion of secondary and higher education and student participation, based on respect
socio cultural, building citizenship and the demands of the labor sphere diversity.
• Encourage the employment and decent work for the various youth sectors, especially
those most vulnerable, respecting social and cultural demands and needs.
• To support the expansion of the coverage and improving the quality of public health in the country,
with emphasis on health promotion, sex education, reproductive health and prevention
addictions.
• Strengthen decentralization, taking into account local and departmental specificities.
• Influence the cultural and communication policies to promote cultural expression,
social life and the right to recreation and leisure of youth sectors.
• To promote youth participation and articulation of youth organizations and between these other
social organizations.
• Promote the development of research on youth realities and systematization
experiences to enrich the knowledge.
• To contribute to strengthening public security policies.
• Promote the National Research Plan for the development of knowledge within and outside
Universities, innovation, competitiveness and development of technologies.

OLDER ADULTS
The Social Policy referred to the Elderly (PAM) to be implemented by the government,
will have as main objective the protection and integral development of men and women
over 65 years to ensure a high standard of living, particularly those living in
poverty and extreme poverty, suffer marginalization and discrimination because of their age, gender,
disability, ethnicity or social status and lack sufficient means for a decent life.
This policy will be implemented through the National Plan for Older Persons (PN-PAM)
which will be based on the following principles:
• Intergenerational solidarity with the elderly.

Government Agenda 2013-2018

• Social integration of the same.
• Respect your dignity.
• full equity in the distribution of development benefits.
The PN-MAP, whose main strategy will be the joint and coordinated action with all
public and private institutions working in the social area, will be built around four axes
fundamental:
• Prevention: actions that prevent the PAM falling into poverty and marginalization;
• Protection: PAM to attend who are in poverty, extreme poverty,
disability and vulnerability;
• Promotion: to ensure the PAM spaces of social participation, development of their abilities,
intellectual and cultural life active and healthy recreation;
• Value: to ensure that PAM be considered in its full dignity of people
Human and their life experiences are exploited by other generations.
Some priority measures to be implemented immediately are:
• PAM old age pension in poverty, extreme poverty, disability and
vulnerability;
• institutional PAM nesting area;
• Training of human resources in the social and health care and PAM
establishment of shelters and care centers and recreation for the same;
• Public health services and specialized geriatric USF components;
• Coordination of joint programs with the area of ​​Children, Adolescents and Youth for
possible transfer to new generations of knowledge, experiences and behaviors
PAM appropriate (emphasis on the preservation of the values ​​of national identity);
• PAM Literacy Program;
• Development of training courses in crafts, arts and crafts of various kinds, appropriate to
PAM are willing and able to perform;
• Signing of agreements with international cooperation agencies in the area
PAM to acquire experiences and concrete support in the implementation of integrated policies
provision of services to the elderly.

PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES
According to unofficial data even 2012 census, the population of people with disabilities in our
country is about 14%.
In this context the Government Agenda is the framework of the various actions and
disability policy over the next years. Its main objectives are to strengthen
actions aimed at promoting independent living, equal opportunities,
progress in the full social inclusion of people with disabilities, optimizing quality
services through innovation and excellence and ultimately the welfare of people with
disabilities, their families and thus the whole Paraguayan citizenship.
With these programming lines, the alliance intends to boost PARAGUAY ALEGRE commitment
society and the national government with the disabled, the necessary harmonization
Paraguayan legislation with international standards and installation of shares as tools
cohesion of the various programs and projects on disability.
Regarding the regulatory framework is proposed:
• Ensure compliance with the rights of persons with disabilities, according to the
Constitution of the Republic of Paraguay to the United Nations Convention on
the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Optional Protocol to the Convention through
of Law 3540/08, and the Inter-American Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of
Discrimination against Persons with Disabilities (Law No. 1,925 / 02).

43

Government Agenda 2013-2018

• To harmonize the national legal framework in order to guarantee the exercise of human rights
men and women with disabilities.
• Promote the creation of the General Law against Discrimination of Persons with Disabilities
based on the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities.
• Support the review and reform of national laws, ordinances, rules and regulations,
particularly those established provisions in the fields of health, education, work,
social development, culture and sports, among others, in order to follow the guidelines and meet the
CDPD criteria and regulations for the allocation of each of the laws that reformed in
disability, in the light of the CRPD, to implement them and monitoring compliance
relevant.
• To support the regulation of the General Law on Accessibility, which is pending approval
in actuality.
In relation to the program it is proposed:
• Empowerment of the National Secretariat of Human Rights of Persons with
Disabilities.
• Develop the National Disability Plan.
In relation to accessibility it is proposed:
• To disseminate and promote the implementation of the Accessibility Standards and stop the development of standards
Related to the issue of accessibility techniques for creating infrastructure in all conditions
public and promote the progressive adaptation of private spaces buildings and the
progressive adaptation of communication services.
In relation to education it is proposed:

44

• Strengthen the design of differentiated strategies of care for children, youth and adults with
disabilities and care models offered in regular education services
and especially for this population.
• To promote and create conditions that allow students with disabilities to study
regular schools of all levels and types, as they may be, receiving support
necessary for its development
• Strengthen the continuous training of teachers, managers, technical experts and staff
Administrative serving people with disabilities (family, teachers and
others) attending or serving people with disabilities.
Regarding Health proposes:
• Improve the quality of comprehensive care services, habilitation and rehabilitation
They provide people with disabilities.
• Form interdisciplinary human resources for specialized care for people with
disabilities.
• Strengthen training, updating and sensitization of specialists in the area.
In relation to work and employment it is proposed:
• To encourage and strengthen the participation of public and private companies including shares
employment of people with disabilities, in collaboration with the public, social and academic sectors.
• To promote awareness campaigns and the promotion of inclusive labor market policies and not
discriminatory.
• Promote the development and strengthening of training strategies to and training
for work to expand opportunities for integration of persons with disabilities.
In relation to the Social Protection proposes:
• To mainstream disability in social development programs.
Regarding Participation is proposed:
• Promote a culture of respect and inclusion of people with disabilities in the life
cultural, sporting and artistic country.

Government Agenda 2013-2018

• Create opportunities for the development of sports, artistic and cultural works by and for
People with disabilities.

INDIGENOUS PEOPLES
This proposal focuses on the public policy guidelines given priority in order to
achieve the strengthening of the collective rights of indigenous peoples.
The normative framework of human rights of indigenous peoples involves the inclusion in the
public strategies, principles such as commitment, equality, ensuring compliance
minimum, non-discrimination, the gradual and progressive realization and non-retrogression. In this context,
the participation of civil society, particularly of communities and indigenous peoples, is
a key element in the design, implementation and monitoring of public policies. Result
must therefore strengthen the mechanisms for dialogue and ensure access to
information as a prerequisite for the active and informed participation.
Shares of adoption in the short and medium term:
• The hierarchical institutional strengthening, technical, budgetary, administrative and Institute
National Indigenous (INDI) as the governing body of the policy for the role Peoples Indígenas.Garantizar
INDI as the lead agency in the field of land policy, subject to coordination with
subnational governments.
• The best INDI hierarchical link in the institutional structure of the executive and as
advisor to various public bodies, especially those within its functions must
differentiate the service to Indigenous Peoples.
• The creation of opportunities for joint in the INDI with partner organizations (Institute
National Rural Development and Land - INDERT, Secretary of Environment - SEAM, Ministry of
Education and Culture - MEC, Ministry of Public Health and Social Welfare - MOH, Ministry of
Agri-culture and Livestock - MAG, etc.), viabilizándose indigenous participation, according to rights
groups guaranteed in the legislation, with the INDERT to proceedings concerning indigenous lands
INDI linkage functions, with the SEAM / CONAM, the Water Board for Watershed; with
the MOH and the MEC, making possible the incorporation of differentiated cross políticasculturalmente,
deObras the Public Ministry and Communications - MOPC, making possible monitoring initiatives
plans, programs and projects, including those of international cooperation, especially
megaprojects (waterway, water supply, infrastructure, etc.) that affect indigenous peoples,
prioritization and complementation being sought.
• The creation of an institutional mechanism to ensure the consultation of indigenous peoples and
right to own the same role in defining policy priorities, plans,
programs and projects.
• The application of the standards of Article 6 of Convention 169, in order to enable
the full exercise of the right of participation of indigenous peoples and communities organized
in the discussion of public policy and government measures affecting the sector.
• Respect for the autonomy of Indigenous Peoples, guaranteeing the free consultation and
informed and ensuring their participation and leading role.
• Establishing levels of dialogue with indigenous peoples own respetandosus
organizations and the process of strengthening them.
• Respect for initiatives and the right of indigenous peoples to propose plans and programs
own projects.
• The installation of a program of restitution of lands and territories and recognition of rights
collectively owned.
• Making national register and restitution of lands to indigenous peoples, as
part of the national land use plan.
• The adoption of legislation to ensure appropriate procedures for the legalization of land
and territories and the implementation of the right to collective ownership of land, according to the legal framework
given by the international rules on the subject. This legislation must pick standards
provided by the jurisprudence of the Court and the Declaration of Nations
United on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples, full recognition to the land restitution

4. 5

Government Agenda 2013-2018

ancestral as the main point of repair to the violation of their rights; full recognition
of indigenous communities as subjects of the right to collective ownership of land.
• The recognition that land ownership is equated to the right to property so
indigenous peoples and communities have the right to request certification of the same.
• The inclusion in the General Budget of the Nation, items for the purchase of
and land titling to indigenous communities, especially those claims
which they are processed in international bodies. In this line, also incorporate the
use of funds from excise taxes established by law 904/81
for the purchase of land; g) projection of legalization of indigenous lands based on indices
population growth; institutions and private entities proceed to transfer
land titles to indigenous communities that have met the legal requirements;
possible the measurement and wiring of all indigenous territories.
• For the Eastern Region: the definition of Regional Water Use Plan and its relation to the Plan of Use
Soil with indigenous participation; the study of the Bill of Land Management
Paraguay and other binding plans; Suspension and review of environmental licenses granted
detriment of indigenous lands.
• For the Western Region: the definition of a Regional Water Use Plan and prioritization
in relation to the Land Use Plan, with indigenous participation; the study of the Bill
Zoning of Paraguay and other binding plans; Reformulation of POAT (High
Paraguay and Boqueron), based on the participation of indigenous peoples and communities and
Formulation of the Environmental Management Plan of the Department of President Hayes
participation of indigenous organizations.
Areas Thematic sections:
Labor rights

46

• Create control agencies, through the competent bodies (MJT), from
working conditions of indigenous workers in various economic sectors, especially
on ranches and in Mennonite settlements.
• Review studies on working conditions of indigenous workers as bonded
debt and marginalization in the Paraguayan Chaco, conducted by the ILO (2005) and implementation of
the corresponding recommendations.
Intercultural education
• Establish a separate budget for the development of quality education.
• Develop a strategic plan for education for indigenous peoples that includes the various
levels, differences by indigenous people, the resources and indicators for monitoring
results.
• Create a training program for teachers to incorporate multiculturalism and a
appropriate appointment system, monetary allocation and ongoing training.
• Create a system of scholarships for secondary and higher education for indigenous youth
contemplate cultural aspects of the beneficiaries.
• Establish programs for youth and adult literacy by race. Pay special attention
that the proposed bilingual education
• Develop technical programs for indigenous youth by race and location areas
Geographic.
• Strengthen school infrastructure, school lunch and health health service
continuous oral.
Intercultural health
• Implement Resolution No. 143/08 approving the "National Indigenous Health Policy".
• Establish a statistical system disaggregated by race to meet people access
Indian public health system.
• convene a decision in the health structure to coordinate and manage
programs for indigenous peoples by race, with due attention to the

Government Agenda 2013-2018

Indigenous peoples in different units of the system.
• Establish a mandatory training program for technical resources to work with
indigenous peoples.
• Build a training program, monitoring and compensation decuada agents,
auxiliaries and / or indigenous health professionals.
• Ensure and increase the installation of water and sanitation in communities
Indians.
• Implement programs to overcome child malnutrition and accompanying programs
food safety.
Taking immediate actions:
• Program emergency relief guaranteeing the right to healthy feeding
communities and groups of indigenous families more vulnerable. The critical condition
and permanent emergency being experienced by most Indians from lack of food
sufficient and unable to feed itself, mainly those without land
or having them insufficient or degraded, forcing them to migrate to the cities or their prey
own forests, or rent their land to soy producers or farmers, in most cases
to cover immediate needs aimed at the survival of the community.
• The current palliative care to indigenous communities, emergency situations, attending
the specific situation without assessing the context, causes, consequences and tracking difficult
any type of programming or projection in order to contribute decisively to the reduction
care repetitive and predictable situations.
• It is proposed, therefore, without minimizing the priority it deserves access to land and
probate, adopting a program of emergency humanitarian aid intended for
fulfill the right to food of those communities or groups of indigenous families
most vulnerable, based on a record of communities and groups that are in this
situation must be seen in the design phase: consultation with beneficiaries, and participation
thereof, with attention to the particularities of each town, crossed position and
climatic factors extended by predictable periods; and an assessment of the beneficiaries
proporcionárseles materials and training resources so going to face for themselves what
that seek to alleviate and, above all, to prevent this program.

STRENGTHENING CITIZEN PARTICIPATION
In the Covenant PARAGUAY ALEGRE we will promote people from a rights perspective
that encourages participation and control, seeking the development of a comprehensive citizenship and
composed of free citizens and responsible democracy, with the knowledge and


• Strengthen the mechanisms of direct participation as the People's Initiative and Referendum and
binding grant, as appropriate, so that they become a effective mechanisms
participation.
• strengthen political parties by establishing concrete mechanisms for them
fulfill the constitutional role of "direct political participation and civic education", forcing

47

Government Agenda 2013-2018

that public funding is used effectively receiving training for his paintings,
the training of their members and the promotion of democratic participation in its internal processes.

CULTURE
The Alliance Paraguay Alegre assumes that cultural policy is the root and the sum of all politics
because it is the basis and foundation of who we are as free and sovereign people. The development
the same is the foundation of the future we want to build Paraguay.
Culture is the product of our whole historical process and is reflected in our ways of seeing
and live life. On our way to exercise and also work in shaping
our spirituality, our thinking, our philosophy and our ethics and our own
social, political, economic, legal. Our artistic, literary, scientific and production
technology. Education, historical memory and language with which we communicate as
different and unique both entities. In short, culture is the set of disciplines and experiences
that shape our identity, so any process of change necessarily means
Revolution to the State Cultural Policy.
Everyone has in fact and law, issues related to art and culture,
understood in a wider dimension. These rights are promoted to ensure that people
and communities have access to culture and to participate in that which is your
choice. They are fundamentally human rights to ensure the enjoyment of culture and
its components in conditions of equality, human dignity and non-discrimination. The rights
relating to issues such as language; cultural and artistic production; participation in culture;
cultural heritage; Copyright; minorities and access to culture, among others.

48

In fact UNESCO declared in 1982 that "Culture gives man the ability to reflect
about himself. It is she who makes us specifically human, rational beings and critics
ethically compromised. Through it we discern values ​​and make choices. Across
man it is expressed, he becomes aware of himself, recognizes his incompleteness,
questions his own achievements, seeks untiringly for new meanings and creates
works that transcend ".
In that sense, the Alliance Paraguay Alegre:
• Understand the Cultural Policy as a transversal axis of our political agenda, so all
state activity is outside of matter, rot not ignore cultural issues like atmosphere
conteniente of life itself or Paraguayan Paraguayan.
• made to bring cultural activities constitute a policy of citizenship, to turn the mere
resident a citizen, aware of their rights and duties, with critical attitude, encouraging
development of their environment with the prospect of a renewal of the outmoded cultural paradigms
that hinder the development of people.
• Implement a state policy in cultural issue for which will strengthen the institution
Rector of cultural policies and to ensure sound management of this role, respecting
and promoting cultural differences of groups that integrates society.
• While the language is one of the pillars on which rests the culture, promote the
respect and use of the various existing languages ​​in the country, as true enarbolándolas
treasures of the Paraguayan community and ensure student learning in the mother tongue and
transmission of values ​​and worldview of the different communities of the nation.
• Encourage social participation in political and cultural events, as a
inherent right to development of the human personality.
• Promote expressions of social and cultural diversity as a means of integration
articulated and respectful of the multiplicity of manifest forms available to the Paraguay. Convert
the right of citizens for inclusion on a tonic whole process of cultural policy of the state.
• Provide support for cultural events in its entirety. Creating education centers
of diverse cultural expressions and will install training centers for cultural promoters
meet the demands of public and private cultural institutions.
• Develop a policy of strict protection of cultural and historical, archaeological,
artistic, paleontological, scientific nation.

Government Agenda 2013-2018

• will be safeguarded through special rescue actions oral heritage and culture
tangible and intangible assets of the nation.
• the extension of the acquis of the National Archives of the Nation will be promoted not only to conservation
what existing documents but the recovery and enhancement of new documents of value
including the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. Those documents located abroad will be managed.
• Encourage the recovery of historical memory, both through formal education
Extra curricular; support for historical research, publishing incunabula, literary works.
historical, sociological, anthropological or linguistic of great cultural value.
• Creation and maintenance of museums of all kinds and facilitate the entry tending to free
of people.
• Promote, in consultation with Governments and Municipalities, creating Centers
Cultural and Interpretation Centres for the expansion of the arts, sciences, research, and
cultural production that enable social inclusion and creates equal opportunities for all
citizens without geographical or socioeconomic distinctions.

SPORT AND RECREATION
Since the Alliance PARAGUAY ALEGRE assume the Sport and Recreation as a policy,
public good and a right, which implies also assume concepts and practices that aim to
fulfillment of criteria such as equity, social inclusion and human development.
Recreation and sports require a public policy that articulates efforts, resources, agendas,
processes, procedures, criteria and mechanisms, as well as the identification and characterization of
stakeholders, as his significant contribution to a better quality of life for
society.
For this work supported by the different public, social and private organizations,
promoting agreements in different areas for better coordination and thus provide citizens
you need for sporting, recreational, healthy and competitive activities.
In our government all the actions and initiatives of the National Secretariat for Sport will
aimed at generating more and better opportunities for participation and practice of activity
physical and sports for all people, regardless of gender, age, economic status and
sociocultural, or level of physical prowess.
Articulately we work with:
The Paraguayan Olympic Committee, provincial and municipal and national institutions:
Federations, Associations, Sports Confederations and Unions.
MEC: develop physical education programs, education and training, national
and international levels, physical education teachers, athletes, national coaches, officials
sports. Scholarships for athletes and coaches. Strengthen the National School
Physical Education for the training of new professionals in the sport at national level and
We will tailor a table of indicators for identifying talent at school level.
The MSPyBS: medical equipment will conform to sports medicine and will install
sports medicine centers, one at the National Sports Secretary for Sports institutions
and one in the Paraguayan Olympic Committee for high performance.
The MOPC: A coordinated management to provide us with the necessary machinery for construction
and maintenance of football stadiums, athletics tracks, swimming pools, conditioning of
sports centers for various sports practices.
CODENIs: for the protection, promotion and defense of the rights of childhood and adolescence.
International bodies: through which we can send our athletes and
coaches high performance centers and international forums.
To do this we have set three strategic axes:
Mass sport
• We will concentrate efforts on promoting physical activity and sport to all
population, seeking to increase the number of people who practice physical activity in the country,
form substantially reduce rates of sedentary lifestyle, and improve the quality of life.

49

Government Agenda 2013-2018

Sport Development
• We will support our athletes through all structures, strengthening
sports organizations, clubs, associations and / or national associations and all institutions
that they have some relationship with the sport in the country.
• We will create a specific development plan and support for high performance athletes,
installing a new sports policy that allows professionalize the tools used.
Infrastructure Improvement
• work for the whole country count on sports facilities suitable for
needs of each region, department and city, which will pave the practice of sports,
both amateur and professional levels, and generate, in turn, the necessary infrastructure to
to carry out the organization of national competitions that allow us to participate and compete
internationally.

JUSTICE
The proposal from the Alliance PARAGUAY ALEGRE is focused on overcoming the problems
which it affects the general perception of lack of justice and the prevailing culture of illegality
our country.
Behind this perception, the inefficiencies of the justice system and the resulting impunity is
conceals the lack of security in everyday much of the population lives. High levels of
corruption prevailing in different strata of the judiciary generate distrust, disbelief
and dissatisfaction. This high level of corruption is the result of late payments in the development of
processes as obsolete by the increased demand from the accused. All this
discourages citizens to settle a dispute in judicial field.

50

The action of our Alliance PARAGUAY ALEGRE to improve the judicial system
focuses on the promotion of two main axes, seeking to contribute to the Judiciary for the
get justice as quickly as possible to all citizens who turn to their podiums
a claim regardless purchasing power.
The first axis linked to the executive branch relationship - Judiciary and the other in the relationship
Citizenship - Judiciary.
Regarding the executive relationship - Judiciary must necessarily coordinate
a series of firm and concrete action so that this relationship becomes gradually more
harmonica, and collaborative dialogue in order to ensure good governance and encourage
coordinated actions promoting citizens.
With regard to citizenship relationship - judiciary will be crucial interaction of Power
Executive in promoting modernization, renovation and structural clearance of Power
Judicial consisting of actions such as simplification of judicial proceedings, through the
oralization, differentiated treatment of small causes, such as streamlining mechanisms such
processes, as well as the organizational restructuring of the services of the judiciary.
In short, the Alliance Paraguay Alegre work to collaborate and promote strategies
help eradicate judicial corruption and the prevailing delay in the judiciary, so as to ensure
citizens a more equitable justice.
Among the first actions to be taken it is proposed:
• Create opportunities for dialogue, rapprochement and openness on the part of the executive branch with the
Judiciary, seeking the support of all stakeholders, to agree on strategies
profitable for the reform of the judiciary in favor of citizenship.
• Participation in collaborative and joint proposals and strategies agreed with the Power
Judicial order to balance the powers of the state and improve levels of justice and governance.
• Submission of bills to organizationally restructure the judiciary.
• The presentation of draft amendments code form in order to simplify,
oralizar and expedite judicial proceedings.
• Submission of computerization of the judiciary, in order to ensure the

Government Agenda 2013-2018

access to citizenship status of the legal proceedings, and other benefits such as streamlined processes, reduced facts
corruption, transparency to the public of information on facts related to the person outside the law.
• Coordinate efforts with the judiciary to make a frontal fight against crime, lawlessness, mafias, the
drug trafficking and other crimes that afflict our society.

51

HAPPY PARAGUAY
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT

MORE IMPORTANT THAN THE CHALLENGE
FACING THE COMPANY PARAGUAYA
ES accelerate
ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
And through it ACHIEVE
PROGRESSIVE REDUCTION OF
POVERTY.

Government Agenda 2013-2018

CHAPTER II
A PROSPEROUS PARAGUAY
Economy and Development

REDUCE POVERTY WITH INVESTMENT, ECONOMIC GROWTH
And job creation
The most important challenge facing Paraguayan society is to accelerate the development process
economic and social and through it a gradual reduction in poverty levels, both
moderate poverty and extreme poverty, but in a sustainable manner over time policies
consistent and balanced public from the perspective of short, medium and long term.
If our country holds an economic growth rate of over 6% average rate
poverty could be reduced to levels of 20% by the end of this decade with an important
growing middle class and an improvement in income distribution. These results are achieved
mainly through the creation of 200,000 jobs a year for which it is required
increased investment in the country. An important and difficult but possible challenge.
Projections Annual National Budget 2014-2018.
Based on the fact that the annual budget of the year 2013 is $ 3,800 million (excluding
the budgets of decentralized State) and based on a growth basis
Potential GDP estimated between 6 and 8% annually on average the annual budget will grow
an average of 16% per year, since tax revenue will grow at twice. It is noteworthy that GDP
the year 2012 was USD 25,500 million.
Thus we have estimated annual budgets are:
Year 2014:

USD 4,400 million

2015:

USD 5,100 million

2016:

USD 5,900 million

2017:

USD 6,800 million

2018:

USD 8,000 million

This means that the Government provide directly the sum of USD 30,200 million
for expenditures and public investments. This amount comes logically: tax revenue,
Loans, Non-tax revenues and grants.
Of this, the Project Paraguay Alegre, can spend on an estimated basis, taking account to a
realistic and possible budget structure of our country and watching the rigid expenditures and
the economic-Services for each of the strategic priorities of the Government's Agenda
following amounts:
PARAGUAY I. WORTH / Society and Equity:

USD 19,328 (64%)

II. PARAGUAY HAPPY / Economy and Sustainable Development:

USD4530 (15%)

III. PARAGUAY GREEN / Environment and Natural Resources:

USD 2,416 (8%)

IV. PARAGUAY EFFICIENT / Management Modernization of the State:

USD 1,510 (5%)

These figures do not include other possible sources of additional funding for different
specific projects that can come from operations PPPs, loans Agencies
Financial Development, issuance of sovereign bonds or grants.
We propose the following public policies for the period 2013-2018:

55

Government Agenda 2013-2018

FISCAL RESPONSIBILITY ACT AND BUDGET DISCIPLINE
To strengthen confidence in the economy a fiscal rule is necessary as a mechanism
coordination between the various actors in the process of preparation, approval and implementation
general budget of expenses of the nation to generate greater predictability about finances
public in time and reduce areas of discretion that generate populist bias in
fiscal policy in the future.
The objectives of the fiscal rule would be:
• Anchor to ensure accountability and fiscal sustainability
• Containment of current expenditure and avoiding a state gigantism
• Generate dynamic tax savings to increase investment in infrastructure and education
• Provide mechanisms to protect the economy against internal shocks transient ends and / or
external (drought, disease, international prices)

Monetary and exchange rate policy for development
Following the recent global economic and financial crisis that began in 2008,
today and for years to coincide with the mandate of the next government the economy
continue global excess liquidity by expansive monetary and fiscal policies
implemented by developed countries, while so-called "currency war" by
main references of the global economy.

56

This excess of international liquidity creates significant challenges for economic policy
emerging countries and, in this case, of our country. How to manage the abundance advantage
intelligently availability of financing on very favorable terms but at the same
while avoiding excessive foreign borrowing and massive capital inflows, especially
short-term capital that can cause a massive appreciation of our currency
generate irreparable damage to the national production companies based in the country
the consequent loss of competitiveness, export loss, loss of production and
finally loss of jobs of thousands of compatriots.
In this sense, our commitment is to maintain a sound monetary policy anchored in the
fiscal discipline based on fiscal responsibility law that intend to approve the start of
government and in order to keep the inflation rate in the range of 2.5 to 7.5%.
However, we will use all the instruments of macro prudential regulation available
the government and the Central Bank of Paraguay to keep our currency, Guarani, is appreciated
unduly in a manner that does not reflect the economic fundamentals of the real exchange rate
long term to maintain external competitiveness, particularly at regional level of our
production and exports. Exchange rate policy will be consistent with this objective
interventions that are needed to maintain a competitive exchange rate under the
inflation target of consumer prices.
In this way, we ensure a system that creates the right incentives for the
exporter industrial development of our country to achieve the objectives of economic growth,
generating jobs and reducing poverty.

ADVANCE industrialization
Our country has taken in the last decade the boom in commodities and has expanded the
agricultural production and export of commodities such as soybeans, taking advantage of the
abundance of fertile land and favorable weather conditions for their production.
This phenomenon has increased economic growth and in the last five years has managed
even permeate urban centers causing the period of economic expansion more
extended from the 70s.
However, this model is insufficient to bring about profound changes in society
Paraguayan. In fact deepens natural rural-urban migration, finding no opportunities
employment in urban areas of Asunción end up migrating to neighboring countries in the
pursuit of the dream of a decent job.

Government Agenda 2013-2018

It is necessary to advance the country's industrial development to create opportunities for people to
through direct and indirect effects of industrial chains.
This industrial development has a good chance of success if we take into account the
main competitive advantages of the Paraguay: the abundance of hydropower
clean, abundant agricultural raw materials of first quality, access to the main
consumer markets in the region and the large number of young people wanting to work all
year they are entering the labor market. All these are fundamental factors for competitiveness
Industrial.
These structural factors we must add other public policy factors that are very
important. Incentive policies as the maquila system, the Free Trade Zones,
The arrangements for import of raw materials, the Law 60/90 of investment promotion, etc.
However, these systems need to be promoted and complemented with
following policies:

Industrialization policy COMMODITY
For the future development of our country, it is necessary to advance the value chain
export of food and non-food agro-industrial areas for which we must
Local implement public policies that generate competitiveness in addition to the processing industry
policies of investment incentives and currently in force in the country.
We propose the generalization of VAT on unprocessed agricultural products to those
most important from the point of view of production, as is the case of soybeans, wheat,
canola, sunflower, rice and corn are those who would be able to enter a string
industrialization.
Moreover, the VAT refund for export of these goods will only count once
with an industrialization process or adding a higher added value. This discrimination
positive lay the foundation for a new growth model, the installation will be encouraged
processing industries, which in turn implies the creation of new jobs is
potentiate the household income and promote further development and poverty reduction.
This application of VAT to the marketing of agricultural products in their natural state
combined with a policy of selective export refunds of processed products
benefit the producer and not mean a burden for the Treasury but rather generate revenue
Additional the effect of higher domestic value added through industrialization tributaries.
To this we add the positive effect of greater formalization of the agricultural economy
will result in better and more controls in the audit and tax compliance
greater transparency of the national economy.

DEVELOPMENT OF INDUSTRIAL PARKS AND ENERGY POLICY
We propose a policy to promote industrial parks to give a geographical sense
installation of industrial plants for small, medium and large. Industrial parks
They have the advantage of concentrating infrastructure services, logistics, government services
and related services that greatly facilitate the process of import-export almacenajeprocesamiento. Asian countries have developed entire regions with this type of
industrial policies.
Additionally, we propose an energy policy of industrial promotion that move low
power generation costs of our country in Itaipu and Yacyreta as an incentive to
the establishment of industrial plants. This is feasible without generating benefits or costs to the State
because our power generation costs are the lowest in Latin America.
This pricing policy combined with the development of industrial parks can guarantee
continued availability of clean energy at low cost in any specific geographic locations
other country in South America has to offer today an industrial company in any sector.

57

Government Agenda 2013-2018

Public Investment Plan: infrastructure, housing,
EDUCATION AND JOB CREATION
We have developed a plan of investment in basic social infrastructure and education
quality to improve the country's competitiveness and progressively ensure equal
opportunities for all Paraguayans.
Infrastructure investments will focus on those sectors and areas where the Paraguayans
need these services: paving and paved routes to improve road transport network
and communications, expansion of the drinking water and sanitation mainly
sorely lacking in urban areas and a strong expansion of transmission capacity and
distribution of electric energy.
This plan incorporates innovatively private participation in the investment, operation and
infrastructure maintenance and have an economic and financial viability within a
responsible fiscal policy of structural balance of the general budget of expenses of the nation.
Moreover, investment in education is primarily focused on improving the quality of
basic education through a program of training of teachers and the introduction
technology in the classroom.
We also propose a significant increase in the coverage of secondary education,
especially focused on technical education through the construction of 4,000 classrooms in the
period of five years that can accommodate approximately 160,000 youth training
technique and skills for immediate employment development.
Also we pose a significant acceleration in access to decent housing for each
Paraguay by expanding the program to build social housing and
housing subsidies program through SENAVITAT and program funding
housing Development Finance Agency.

58

In addition to the expansion of public services to citizens, the realization of these
investments have a significant impact on creating jobs.
Finally, special attention will be paid to the development and management of the following Plans
Nationals who have been recently developed by the Government:
• National Logistics Plan (MOPC)
• Transport Master Plan (MOPC)
• National Plan for Habitat and Housing / PLANHAVI (SENAVITAT)
• National Development Plan and Zoning Framework (STP)
And also to the Plans and Project Portfolio involving the Paraguay IIRSA (Initiative
South American Regional) integration and COSIPLAN (UNASUR).

Some PLANNED INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS
The Master Plan Works Ande plans investments amounting to USD 2,570 million,
which will be financed with genuine Budget and financing institution
mechanisms of PPP (Public Private Partnerships). This will mean the availability of a number
20,000 MVA (Mega Watt Amper). Note that an estimated 1 MVA generates between 50 and 300
jobs.
The Sewerage Master Plan ESSAP has a budget of USD 518,000 million for
first phase. This includes: New Collectors, Collectors Rehabilitated and Treatment Plants
and it involves other investment of about $ 90 million for home plumbing connections.
Through these works it may incorporate some 760,000 people to the availability of this service.
On the other hand, ESSAP also has budgeted investments in Greater Asunción and the
different areas of the country in the amount of USD 1,270 million (Master Plan of Greater Water
Assumption; Treatment plant and trunk sewers of northern suburbs of Asuncion; Plant
Collectors treatment and Core Zone Villa Hayes; Investment in Water and Sanitation District
North; Investment in Water and Sanitation Centre Zone - East; Investment in Water and Sanitation
South Zone).

Government Agenda 2013-2018

Road Investment Plan MOPC has a budget of USD 3,700 million for the period
2014-2018. This means an average annual investment of USD 740 in the field. Are you
investments envisaged: Empedrados (USD 100 million); Asphalt Paving (USD 2,740
millions); Bridges Ho.Ao. (USD 20 million); Retreading (USD 300 million); Road Safety (USD
3 million); Embankments (USD 92 million); Unpaved roads maintenance ($ 70 million);
Paved Roads Maintenance (USD 180 million); Improvement of Roads (USD 140 million).
Other infrastructure investments made are:
• Social Housing: 15,000 units per year with an annual investment of USD 225 million
and the creation of about 56,000 jobs.
• Classrooms and Technical Colleges: 800 classrooms per year with an annual investment of USD 20 million and a
creating some 5,000 jobs. Reforestation Program: 100,000 hectares per year
with an annual investment of USD 100,000 per year and create about 25,000 jobs

FEASIBILITY AND FINANCING SOURCES
These investments are raised in an anti-cyclical fiscal policy but of balance
structural budget thus maintaining responsible management of finances
public that has characterized our country in the last decade.
Funding sources incorporate the resources provided in the new law and FONACIDE
Additional revenue from taxes that take effect in the next
Dynamic years and tax savings are sought through the discipline of a
budget management with great honesty and rationality prioritizing investment in services
relevant to the public.
It also incorporates private participation in infrastructure investment and a level of
debt payments equivalent to the current level of government debt repayments
Central and orienting the new debt to public entities that have a generation
own income through the services it provides and the Andes, the Essap and AFD.
Our proposals of economic and social policies are aimed at creating more jobs
with better wages to go definitively defeating poverty that affects so many compatriots.
The creation of jobs arising from the joint effort between the public sector and the private sector.
In this joint effort, the public sector creates the conditions for increasing competitiveness
the country through investments in infrastructure, education and human capital and ensuring
macroeconomic stability and observance of property rights. The private sector, meanwhile,
develop their creativity and effort to invest and develop those sectors where our
country clearly demonstrates its competitive advantages, in our case in industrial development.
As a result, we believe it is possible to generate around 200,000 jobs
annually.
Finally, the economic and social policy is raised of a workable and sustainable manner in the
time through genuine sources of financing and on a regime of anti-cyclical fiscal policy
structural balance. This ensures its validity for decades Paraguayans for future generations.

INFRASTRUCTURE
The infrastructure must play a strategic role to overcome our landlocked, optimize
our river, air and land links to the Atlantic (Europe / USA) and the Pacific (Asia /
Oceania), and minimize time and cost of transport. It is a fundamental factor for competitiveness
of the economy and the realization of private investment, and hence for job creation.
Historically, the MOPC has invested about 100 million dollars a year in infrastructure,
It makes up 1% of GDP. In 2010, we increase investment to $ 245 million, ie,
We reached almost 2% of GDP. However, the recommendation speaks of an investment in infrastructure
in the order of 5%. If we add to our investment MOPC, which make SENASA, ERSSA, MEC,
MSP and BS, among others, could refer to an investment that represents 3% of GDP.
Regarding the paved kilometers per inhabitant ratio, Paraguay is in the
lower levels of the region. For comparison, include the case of Uruguay, a country that

59

Government Agenda 2013-2018

It represents, geographically, 42% of the country. It has 11,000 km. of paved roads, while the
Paraguay 4,500 Km.
Growing public demand for education, health and transport requires
investment that the State could not respond alone. Our country can not wait,
say 20 or 30 years to double Route 2, which will CDE; not to invest in the waterway, or
to invest in an airport that falls short of what today's world demands.
The Public Private Partnership (PPP) is a model that has been developed in several countries. At our
region, there are successful experiences in Argentina, Chile (which has 13 concessioned airports
different scale, such as Iquique that has more than 200 thousand passengers), Peru, Ecuador and Uruguay.
Carrasco airport in Montevideo, you can see a fantastic infrastructure work,
an investment of 160 million dollars. Initiated in previous governments, and to early strength
in the current government, today it is opening under the recognition that the model is successful.

Fluvial Sector
The Paraguayan flag constitutes more than 80% of the fleet of merchant shipping in the waterway
Paraguay - Parana. It is a source of direct employment for over 5,000 people, while in
indirectly, to 10,000.
Transports 90% of exports and 70% of imported products
extrazone. And about 28% of domestic products at the level of cabotage, ie those
They do not go by land. In addition, it emphasized, which is the most economically tonne /
kilometers, and is the least aggressive to the environment.

60

• Work hard in your own stretch of the waterway, the 536 or 554 kilometers, from the River
Pilcomayo River to Apa. They have 25 steps of sand, stone 7 steps, and is the bottleneck
of the waterway, as mentioned in all studies, even in the first study
navigability of the Paraguay river, made in the 60s.
• In this section add the section Pilcomayo - Formosa, considering the airworthiness agreement
with Argentina, dating from November 1969, which necessarily have to be recreated
at this time, because the neighboring country just concession the stretch Santa Fe and the Confluence
Waterway company, which is working very successfully since early 2000 in the section
Santa Fe - Rio de la Plata. The maintenance of this section corresponds to the RCA. Argentina.
• necessarily participate actively in solving the problem of convergence of Asuncion
as a key stretch for the entire export and import of strategic Paraguay.De said section
soybean production goes through the same or oil can bring.
• Encourage private, other than the "concession" to promote the development of alliances public area.
• Run dredging, marking and signage of the entire system
• Develop road and rail networks for expansion of the agricultural frontier with access to
terminalesportuarias
• Define the works of the Yacyretá lock without hindering river traffic
• Provide effective support to the shipbuilding industry (construction and repairs) to meet the
expected growth of the fleet.
• Implement regional training programs and training of personnel on board.
All this, in addition to involve and encourage growth in the economy will mean investments
infrastructure for more than USD 250 million (which does not include the issue of Yacyreta booth).

Road Sector
• Increase and improve primary and secondary network.
• Develop and improve access roads to Asuncion.
• Development of rail transport.
• Conserve and mantentener routes permanently and initerrumpida.
• Chaco, public-private joint in the Chaco. So by paying the toll, be managed
maintenance of the road system.

Government Agenda 2013-2018

Multimodal Communication
Paraguay is a country that, by its geostrategic position, has many competitive advantages. Today the
Atlantic world produces and consumes in the Pacific. Paraguay is in the middle of these two worlds,
We are exactly at the center point. If we do the job, we can appropriate the
This system opportunities.
Our geographic situation described implies unsuspected opportunities. We are part of
Central Interoceanic Hub, we are part of the MERCOSUR - Chile; We're on the edge, bordering the shaft
Andean, are in the middle of the waterway. This allows us to propose a communication system
multimodal, taking as central to Paraguay.
But we must not think only of road and waterway. It's time to think about recovering
this means that in the early twentieth century, has been the most competitive and the most efficient, but
unfortunately states have shelved: the rail system.
Paraguay has the possibility of reactivating a railway system as did the Americans
through all its states, for transporting foodstuffs produced in this
part of the Atlantic. As was said here, we are the largest producers of food grains,
meat, and some consumers have a growing economic capacity and consumption.
This context requires us to make a commitment to develop the infrastructure system we
allows to connect to this network of regional trade, become more competitive and generate development
that our country needs.
This region is not only the center of food production is the production center
Gas is hydroelectric and agricultural center. Has mines and minerals: everything that today the world
developed is claiming.

Airports
Connectivity for Paraguay is almost a matter of sovereignty and we can not continue
subject to the limits that we have at our border. Then the air transport system
becomes a fundamental geopolitical tool. Paraguay needed to promote growth
outside: that's all we can do, we are a small country with a small population. Our future
you are outside, and connect outside means infrastructure, connectivity means.
In this context, probably the most important infrastructure is the air. Paraguay, country
Mediterranean small and historically "locked" straightjacket for their two countries
neighbors, now has the historic opportunity to break that barrier and connect to the world through
Air system. Airports in high level are essential to develop the country's connectivity,
and their communication with the outside world.
Since our government will promote the stimulus and creating conditions for the sector
private resources directed to the development of such infrastructure.
The development of a licensing system will then allow a significant improvement in the
infrastructure of roads, ports, airports through private participation. The best of
the airport network will improve connectivity will transform the country into a platform for
implement economic liberalization and global trade.
In a concession model, the state defines the need through social and public interest
a project by delegating the business risks to the private sector to be it,
with their technical and financial capacity, build and operate projects of medium and long term,
maintaining state ownership of the same.
We will work to build trust among all stakeholders: the State - the Executive,
The legislature, the judiciary -, labor, private sector, users must
cultivate confidence essential to accelerate and materialize the dream condition.
We establish clear and permanent rules. This is a sine qua non for any
international and long term we want to attract investment Paraguay.
Basic conditions for the implementation of a good system of concessions
• Build you mutual trust between the parties (government, labor, dealers and users).

61

Government Agenda 2013-2018

• Establish clear and permanent rules.
• Implement an adequate system of dispute settlement.
• Action and regulated state presence.
• sustainable financial system with the support of multilateral organizations.
With good management of this issue, it is estimated that over a period of 5 years may generate
private equity investments for infrastructure and public services by the mechanism of the
PPPs worth about USD 2,000 million.

Housing Sector
In Paraguay, it has a housing deficit of 1.1 million dwellings. We are a country of nearly 7 million
inhabitants, but with a growing rate of 25,000 homes per year. If not found
quick solutions, these problems become more serious.
Unfortunately, public institutions have not yet managed to develop a capacity
management to address this serious problem.
It will deepen and management of the National Plan for Habitat and housing will strengthen Paraguay
(PLANHAVI) prepared in this government, to make it a public policy matter,
matter has been postponed for decades and that both need our people and our country.
Program of Social Housing is proposed: 15,000 units per year with a
annual investment of $ 225 million and create about 56,000 jobs with very low
training, which is another problem.

62

The issue of social housing will also have a comprehensive and systemic approach, and would link
directly to sustainable development. This means that programs will be articulated
socio-economic development, environmental health and job creation (SMMEs and others).
The issue of 2,500,000 Paraguayans excluded worsens because they are not trained. They
It requires the promotion of training programs and there is nothing like building for that. Is
allows, in a very short time, entering the labor market, generating genuine income
transit and consumer figure, by extension, the resumption of formal education, reaching
even to tertiary.
In this matter, it is not only to provide the population likely to access a
decent housing, but also this very important -of itself should promote a process of
socioeconomic improvement of beneficiary families. And in many cases, they will of
a condition of marginality and informality to formality and a situation of full citizenship.
Moreover, different types of programs will be promoted, which will be directed not
only the most deprived population, but also will go to the different strata
Socioeconomic more purchasing power, which means that virtually first
time in the history of our country, any citizen can access mechanisms offered by the
State to acquire their own homes.
In all cases, the houses will state subsidies, inversely
the ability to pay of the beneficiaries.
Moreover, all these programs will be linked to other related and Urban Development
Territorial Development, which is also proposed in the Government Agenda. And they will be coordinated with
Municipal and Departmental Governments which are implanted, so as to make them
factors for development of the place rather than serious social, urban, infrastructural problems,
provision of environmental services and as often has happened so far.
Approached in this way, all this will contribute significantly to the growth of the industry
construction, with all goods, supplies, services and jobs that mobilized the same and
the growth of the economy, considering the magnitude and diversity of the investments
promote.

Government Agenda 2013-2018

Water and Sanitation Services
A program of public investment in water and sanitation is imperative. About:
• tap water in urban areas, we have to go from 81 to 100%; while in rural areas,
from 30% to 75%.
• sewage in urban areas, where coverage only reaches 14%, should be
raise it to 50%; and, whereas in rural areas the figure is 0%, should reach 15%.

Telecommunications
Telecommunications are a key to economic and social development of society factor.
The technologies of broadband and telecommunication are tools to change attitudes
social behaviors and how to perform everyday activities. This transformation
ultimately impacts all areas of society and requires a harmonious and realistic vision for
designing appropriate incentive measures that result in increased productivity and
economic growth.
With this vision, PARAGUAY ALEGRE Alliance aims to promote the development of
infrastructure and telecommunications services, relying on collaboration with
companies, to improve participation, opportunities, employment and welfare
population.
Through coordination and public-private partnerships, we will seek to extend the maximum
possible, access and use of information technologies and communications to all
territory and to all levels of society.
Implement a planned and coordinated action by investment efforts, encouragement and
development that will advance to Paraguay to a more connected, inclusive society with a
more intensive use of communications and information, accelerate the progress of the individual and
society as a whole.
We will promote the supply side: the development of infrastructure and services
telecommunications, working with companies to extend the maximum possible access
and the use of information technology and communications to the whole territory and all
social levels; the demand side: improve participation opportunities,
employment and welfare of the population, with emphasis on driving online government, education
and provide children acquainted with the Internet world.
We recognize that the successful development of this objective can be achieved only with the participation
active in many state institutions and the private sector, which will invite all
stakeholders to join in this effort.
We must also recognize that the speed of technological change has accelerated and life
of new technologies it has been shortened.
So that technological evolution of networks and services, will encourage, permit
and take advantage of the best possible way, without aloof from the consequences and
monitoring their evolution.
It is very important to note that the added value of creating infrastructure is given by
applications that generate business and government, and the appropriation and use by the
general population.
Telecommunications is a generating tool and enabler of opportunities
social progress.
Most of the investment will have to come from the (public and private) operators themselves
and the Government's role will be to promote, encourage, guide and facilitate such investments
materialize.
As it has become massive use of mobile phones to reach most of the
population, now need to generate a similar spread of broadband and digital TV.
Our main challenge will be to provide Internet access to the greatest possible number of people and
localities, and that achieve a greater impact on the welfare and productivity of the country.

63

Government Agenda 2013-2018

Simultaneously with the installation of infrastructure, the government will promote (at
national, state and local) offer online procedures that make life easier for
citizens and create value for Internet applications.
Today worldwide, has identified the Internet as an essential tool
countries to keep in sync with the development and cultural and economic opportunities,
so we aim to achieve by 2018 the target of 75% of households with access to
Broadband.
It is clear that to achieve this goal requires working on several fronts simultaneously,
but we have identified that the main constraint is to have fiber to the populations.
In many locations it currently has cellular service coverage and voice messages
short, but it is not possible to provide broadband because it lacks sufficient transmission.
Therefore, an important municipalities to connect fiber optic investment is required.
To do this, we will stimulate a sustained pace of investments by private consortia
build fiber optic routes to reach the towns of interest in a minimum amount of
1,000 km annually. The five-year plan hopes to install 5,000 km of optical fiber, and reach at least
220 municipalities.
The proposal is to accompany the development of the fiber, providing subsidies to companies
offer broadband populations currently without these services and
are close to the fiber routes. The proposal is to subsidize access to these locations:
schools, municipalities and telecenters.
While the Paraguayan state does not arise as a major player in terms of investment,
construction or operation of telecommunications infrastructure, we see opportunities
to have a significant impact on both the supply and demand of services to stimulate
private investment and boosting competition.

64

PARAGUAY ALLIANCE ALEGRE in regard to telecommunications, promote development
an institutional and regulatory environment based on the following principles:
• A transparent, predictable and targeted to encourage and facilitate investment and regulatory framework
reduce barriers to entry for new players.
• Mechanisms that foster inclusion, integration and dissemination of services to all
territory.
• Actions to incorporate broadband to all aspects of society to improve life
everyday of the population.
• Effective competition based on investment, to achieve the maximization of social welfare.
• Encourage technological convergence of services and networks, promoting greater use
and possible sharing of infrastructure to be installed to generate innovation and offering new
services, subject to existing legal restrictions.
• Technological neutrality, allowing free choice of technology is responsibility
and decision of the entity making the investment in the project.

MSMEs (micro, small and medium enterprises)
MSMEs play a key role in the Paraguayan economy: nine out of ten
companies are in this segment, generating nearly all of the jobs and over
half of GDP.
The Alliance Alegre Paraguay will be a facilitator of new business, we will strengthen the way for
become a successful country, will promote actions to strengthen the support mechanisms
entrepreneurs, will promote business projects and successful companies to install
generate employment.
We will focus on promoting the creation of new projects and companies, as well as the
micro, small and medium existing enterprises.
The regulatory framework, Law 4457 was used for MSMEs, to promote and encourage the creation,

Government Agenda 2013-2018

development and competitiveness of smaller companies to incorporate the structure
Formal production of goods and services and give them legal identity.
Paraguay through an extraordinary moment, we propose to the Paraguayan nation, move the mind,
ideas, institutions, attitudes and put them into positive, concrete actions that benefit
all Paraguayans to achieve greater bienetar conditions. If we want to grow Paraguay,
we have to make grow their ideas, their projects, their businesses, their companies:
• Implement a policy of state support to entrepreneurs and MSMEs
• Ensure that entrepreneurs and small businesses really take advantage of the programs
government building. Finding mechanisms for entrepreneurs and citizens
General know and use programs and supports to install them.
• To promote the transformation of micro into small, small to medium in size,
medium to large.
• Build an entrepreneurial ecosystem, with the joint participation of academia with
public and private sectors to create hotbeds of talent and innovation of high impact.
• Ensure competitive conditions and adherence to the law, starting with promote
transparency and accountability. For the effect will run the National System
MSMEs that enables the comprehensive work, harmonized set of organs involved in
creation, formalization, development and competitiveness of MSMEs. This system will have as
main purpose planning and implementation of policies and actions, for which purpose it may:
• To approve the National Plan for the Promotion and formalization for competitiveness and development
MSMEs incorporating regional priorities by sector, indicating the objectives and goals
corresponding.
• Focus on strategies and projects of modernization, innovation and technological development for
MSMEs.
• To propose new instruments to support MSMEs, considering trends
international regional countries with which Paraguay has more interaction.
• To promote the simplification and facilitation of all relevant formalities to MSMEs.
• Encourage the establishment of business incubators and entrepreneurship training.
• Promote technological culture in MSMEs "modernization, innovation and development
technological ".
• Promote educational programs for SMEs, strengthening the links between academia and business
and the creation of companies with universities and technical and technological institutes; notwithstanding
his regime of university autonomy, they will consider the provisions of this Act, for the purposes
to establish graduates, non-formal education programs, consulting and advisory services aimed at
strengthen productivity and competitiveness, outreach and special chairs for
MSMEs, promoting entrepreneurship.
• To promote intra and extra-sectoral coordination, mobilizing domestic and international resources,
implement strategic planning in standardization, control and superior handling.
• Facilitate access of MSMEs to government purchases, participating in hiring and
acquisitions, according to the relevant regulations.
• Promote growth, diversification and consolidation of exports, direct and indirect
MSMEs, implementing development strategies and export supply markets as well as
building to improving business management in coordination with public and private institutions.

Training and Technical Assistance
PARAGUAY ALLIANCE ALEGRE promote services and training activities and assistance
technique in matters of priority established in the strategic plan and promotion programs
and arranging for the competitiveness and development of MSMEs, as well as mechanisms for
serve them.

65

Government Agenda 2013-2018

Training programs and technical assistance will be directed to:
• The creation of companies.
• The organization and business associations.
• Business management.
• The production and productivity.
• The commercialization and marketing


Simplification of Procedures
Institutions and agencies of the Federal, State and Municipal Government reduced
the minimum necessary paperwork and procedures required for the incorporation, registration,
oversight and support to MSMEs.

MICROFINANCE: Access to credit for MSMEs

66

PARAGUAY ALLIANCE ALEGRE is fully convinced that the public interest activity
Credit for MSMEs in the country. MSMEs can access credits
contemplate prolonged repayment, grace periods, competitive interest rates
and other special conditions set out in the regulations to be issued by the
competent authorities regulating the sector.
Mitigating the difficulties to access credit markets and reach beyond borders
national, through financing of programs developed by leading banks support
SMEs in Paraguay.
Since the Alliance PARAGUAY ALEGRE will promote actions aimed at:
• Diversify and expand the services offered by the Paraguayan Financial Intermediary as
a priority given the growing demand for microcredit and other benefits of the industry.
• Promoting financial inclusion and economic development of people living in
poverty.
• Apply new regulations, to be compiled in order to dynamic expansion
supply and demand for microfinance services existing in the country.

Preferential Loans
MSMEs will have access to preferential credit lines when they are intended
modernization, mechanization, mechanization and introduction of new technologies
conversion, increasing productivity and promoting marketing in the markets
national, regional and global. Similarly, positive actions will be sought to facilitate the
access to credit for vulnerable sectors such as people with disabilities, heads of households, mothers
single and family farmers.

Creating new alternative financing mechanisms for
Mipymes
PARAGUAY ALLIANCE ALEGRE articulate seek alternative financing mechanisms for
the same, and in that sense, stimulate the creation of mutual guarantee; promote
policies to design operating systems constitution of trusts and base before
tax incentives relevant bodies of the inclusion of budget items in the
General Budget of the Nation to support the sector.

Government Agenda 2013-2018

We will create a Fund Microenterprise Support to channel US $ 100 million in loans
productive sector per year. This will support microenterprises with average loans 20,000
US $ 2,500 per year, for an average period of two years. Each micro strengthened in
1 workstation average and 1.3 jobs created in that period. Thus every two years
We strengthen and create 46,000 jobs. In five years it will mean more than 100 jobs
Work generated by the private business sector.

RURAL DEVELOPMENT AND LAND REFORM
The proposal of the government agenda presented for the implementation of a Development
Rural and comprehensive agrarian reform has solid constitutional foundations and framing itself into a
dynamic, serious and can process with the participation of all sectors, strengthening the
weaker sections of the rural sector in order to incorporate them into the development process.
Rural development for our country will be part of a continuous process of medium and long
term translated into actions planned, coordinated and concerted contemplating aspects
in production, infrastructure, utilities, environmental conservation, social development,
participation, rightly, in the context of human rights, cultural identity and
gender equality.
As production was framed in promoting sustainable agriculture models
implemented through organizations generating more revenue for the sector and
while consolidating its food security conditions and the right to food.
In the political we will encourage the promotion of an organized rural society to participate
and it constitutes an active leading actor in the planning, implementation and auditing
public policies and budgets.
The State is obliged to intervene in the social and economic life of the neediest citizens,
most vulnerable, giving social and economic responses to social demands and needs and
economic.
Our proposal for Agrarian Reform and Rural Development is based on it, because as
government program believe that this approach will be fulfilling a precept
constitutional and supporter of greater social equality with our fellow countrymen and women
men of the Republic of Paraguay.
Recent studies have in developed countries where it has been shown that giving
appropriate conditions for small farmers can be as productive as large,
This will allow real participation in development policies.
If the sectors of small producers were not incorporated into the changes and dynamics
development, this will make the system of subordination and exploitation that must be perpetuated
eliminate, any development process.
Land reform we set for our country requires for its successful implementation of a framework
integrated rural development, a framework of integration that goes beyond the purely agricultural.
Agricultural structures that start and settle in isolated and scattered, disconnected
industrialization processes become factors of oppression and dependence on
agricultural sector.
Agrarian reform that we propose to implement can not be considered as a phenomenon
land tenure or just an agricultural problem, because it would leave farmers producers
contributors as mere raw material to other sectors of the economy, but we must
do it in a general context of rural development besides the infrastructural support
physical, human and cultural incorporate it, the other phases of the production process, such as: LA
Agro-processing, marketing, COMPETITIBIDAD and related services,
so that there is more coherence and solidarity in the production process with which it is created
employment root of the population in the countryside and contribute to an equitable distribution in the
rural settlements peasants.
Legalization and Access to Land Tenure
The actions proposed are:
• Changing the legal system for determining the estates.

67

Government Agenda 2013-2018

• Conduct periodic surveys to project the amount of land needed to meet
the demand for agrarian reform, through the purchase of the same.
• Degree of property and allocation of plots in settlements and cadastral regularization.
• sanction and promulgate laws providing streamlined processes for land reclamation bad
-gotten.
• Regulate occupations agile through legal mechanisms.
• Update legislation on the siting of fiscal surplus.
• Conduct the agricultural census with updated cross-check by landless farmers
department officially implemented and executed, plus a standard transparent
date of the award recipients of public lands.
• practical control of farmers have access to land to avoid selling as derechera
condition for the start of the rooting.
• Reforming and readjust the institutional structure of the state and its legal framework in the field.
• Promote access to land with gender equality by implementing the Indert access
women and men to land on equal terms.
• Streamline the Register of Beneficiaries and indigenous communities.
Development and support family farming and Food Safety

68

The development of family farming required by the state assistance
systematic comprehensive, based on education and family farmers to enable them as
active agents of development, as well as indigenous peoples. The strategy for it
It is to articulate the various projects and programs being undertaken at the level of sectors
achieve greater positive impact on the rural family economy, promote participation
municipal governments, departmental, indigenous and peasant organizations.
• Plans roots in rural settlements, implementing a comprehensive development model
for the production unit.
• Alternative production systems for food security and areas with prospects
favorable to the market through appropriate financial and technological resources.
• Develop strategies insertion and permanence in the markets and supply chains.
• Developing alternative non-farm rural employment and at the same time joint strategies and
shares in the public offering aimed at family farming.
• To promote the progressive development of hedging mechanisms for climate risks as
eg agricultural insurance.
• Industrialization raw materials to add value to agricultural production in areas
of production.
• Production based on the organization of small producers / as, cooperatives, networks, renewed
and strengthened to build trust.
• diversified and economically, ecologically and culturally sustainable rural production.
• promoting competitiveness and promoting market niches.
Restore and rebalance the Agrosistemas
• Faced with the dangers of desertification, pollution, drought, floods and imbalances
climate, restore ecosystems and restore its balance, this balance will be the basis on which
they can build new capabilities in relation to social and cultural rights.
• The foundation of ecosystems, protection of pure water and the treatment of
contaminated are central, integrated management of micro basins, protection of wetlands.
• Update and strengthen policies to protect and restore the native forest.
• To combat the negative impact of chemicals.

Government Agenda 2013-2018

Agricultural Production
• technical training in soil management and the implementation and use of contour,
crop rotation, recovery programs and soil management with technical assistance through
the training of technicians / as local in application and use of appropriate technology.
• Diversifying production, technical assistance through training of technicians and monitors
in diversifying local production.
• Technical training people in production of forest seedlings and fruit and distribution
free seedlings in vulnerable areas.
• To promote the production and recovery of native seeds and support the creation of Banks and
seed production areas.
• Development of SMEs and agrodindustrialización with access to financial resources and
technical training.
• Create the appropriate volume of the population need for industries and community
storage and processing of local production
• Provide access to different markets for organic and agro-ecological products.
Land Management
The Paraguayan territory needs a system that clearly defines productive regions,
agricultural and cattle before the advance of extensive farming was historically territories
They belonged to peasant and indigenous communities engaged in agriculture production
food.
To this end it is proposed:
• Create the appropriate volume of the population need for industries and community
storage and processing of local production (silos, community gin, small or
medium industries for the production of juices of native fruits, horticultural products).
• Promote organic and ecological agriculture, emphasizing conservation and crop seeds
Traditional farmers at national and regional and local levels to promote the protection and
recovery of native seeds in the seed bank facilities, production areas
seed and research in the field of transgenic seeds, agrochemicals very
especially biocides.
• Community Participatory monitoring and execution of rural development programs.
• Introduction of machinery and technology according to peasant farming culture to advance
and higher production yields and productivity.
• Encourage designed and planned production was above all, food security.
• To preserve spaces for the development of peasant family farming, as well as sustained
productive.
• Increase competitiveness in the production of most livestock to improve positioning
market checking and controlling the health and genetics.
Credit
• Promote access and full exercise of the right to agricultural credit and small animals
peasant family, making it accessible to both men and women.
• Credit must be short, medium, long term, with years of grace attending the amount to be
renegotiated with lower interest rate ever, usurious if necessary.
• Credit must observe at least pay the farmer for his land and his food
family strengthened his farm with his work and diversified family planned production.

69

Government Agenda 2013-2018

Market
• Study of prices permanently. As still on the market. Search of
marketing channels for products of income of rural producers.
• Effective and joint marketing by the producers organization promoting
the organization and coordination of producer organizations and producers with agencies
public and private.
• Crop Insurance. Initiate negotiations or seek financing with the Central Bank of Paraguay,
regulator of insurance companies to include small producers as customers
agricultural.
The Comprehensive Agrarian Reform for our country becomes an essential condition of development, as
its objective is to change the power structures in the relations of exploitation
antihuman. To achieve these objectives a formal institutionalization of the structure is needed
land with strong legal and legal bases.
Agrarian Reform must necessarily be comprehensive, it should not be limited to the distribution of land and
improving production, including ensuring a number of rights and services, health, education,
marketing, development of clean and appropriate technology, improving rural communities.
Food sovereignty also means not only produce but access to healthy food,
produced locally in sufficient numbers to ensure the integral development of individuals amount. Is
a state responsibility to be expressed in a government policy that allows not only
access to land, but to create jobs, prevent exclusion of rural families to cities,
raise and lower the production of healthy and nutritious food, revive rural industries,
produce raw materials for domestic industries, building equitable relationships between men and
women, protect and improve the environment and culture of Paraguay and Paraguayan be.

70

Set gradual tax not subject to agrarian reform by setting a rate properties
taxable according to the market price of the regions where they are so to
for tax to discourage the concentration of rural property.
Also passes through a new and reliable register of land. It should clean up the land law
territorial cross-checked by the Directorate General of the Public Registry, Cadastre
Indert and the judiciary, with the investigation of overlapping titles, false and nonexistent titles.

URBAN DEVELOPMENT. SUSTAINABLE CITIES
In relation to human habitat, cities and human settlements, the Alliance PARAGUAY
ALEGRE proposes the urgent need for cities to be planned and developed, including
integrated approaches to planning and management. It aims to foster partnerships
from sustainable economically, socially and environmentally. In this regard, it is proposed
improve the quality of human nuclei, including living and working conditions of the
residents of both urban and rural areas in the context of poverty eradication,
so that all people have access to basic services and housing, as well as
ability to travel, conserve the natural and cultural heritage of human settlements,
revitalize the historic sites and rehabilitate heritage sites of cities, plus support
sustainable waste management by applying the principle of the "3Rs" (reduce,
reuse and recycling) and promoting sustainable and inclusive public transport.
The lack of land use and urban-rural planning induces a distribution
unbalanced activities and population. In the absence of public regulation,
private interests take precedence in the territorial organization of social life,
contributing to the generation of social exclusion, increased housing deficit and
destruction and pollution of the environment.
This anomalous situation creates huge costs and social, environmental and economic liabilities and results
in a poor quality of life for people and generating properties occupations
private and informal settlements, with all the problems of marginalization that this entails.
Our country is decidedly changing its trend of passing the settlement in cities
Most of the population live in an urban environment. Currently metropolitan regions
They generate enormous imbalances of infrastructure, large asymmetries that are enlarged due to the
slow planning, municipalities run dissonant plans disperse the efforts and
economic resources and that do not address the structural issues.

Government Agenda 2013-2018

The planning of cities should include not only the territory, it must deal besides
productivity, infrastructure, mobility, culture, health and leisure. Coordination
actions so it is essential to strengthen municipal autonomy and at the same time
contribute to improving the quality of life for residents.
A central aspect of quality of life and productivity is the urbanized territories
historical lack of public policies in the areas of mobility and accessibility, promoting this
absent the existence of unsustainable transport systems that encourage social exclusion
and result in very high economic and social costs, with its burden of deaths and injury and
heritage to the population.
It should therefore develop plans promotion, development and promotion of transport models
sustainable urban systems with emphasis on quality public transport and alternative mobility,
in work coordinated with local authorities, developing their management skills.
From the deepening and implementation of the Framework Plan of Development and Planning
Territorial of Paraguay recently developed by the Technical Planning Secretariat (STP) is
will work in the field.
Migration, mobility, urban economy, infrastructure provision; They are not
doubts big issues to be addressed during the period of government. The integration of the areas
metropolitan and managing a holistic vision for the determination of major axes
action. For which the following is proposed:
• Promote the implementation of the National Plan for Habitat and Housing (Planhavi)
• Promote the development and implementation National Development Framework Plan and Management
Territorial
• Promote the design and implementation of the strategic plans of large cities and Area
Metropolitan; Asuncion, CDE, Encarnacion
• Set the alignment of the Urban Policy Planning and Territorial Development Plan
National.
• Development and implementation, in coordination and supporting local authorities Plans
Urban Planning and Development in all municipalities.
• Development and implementation, in coordination and supporting local authorities Plans
Sustainable Urban Mobility in all agglomerations of more than 30,000 inhabitants,
Coinciding with the Plans and Urban Policy.
• Create an entity or Secretariat that is responsible for technical cooperation with the municipalities and
Cities across the country aimed at the Planning and Urban Development. (As did the
Brazil several years ago with the creation of the Ministry of the City.)
• Set the alignment of the Urban Policy Planning and Territorial Development Plan
National.

The Housing Deficit of Paraguay: Integrated Housing Programs
Social Interest.
According SENAVITAT estimates, the housing deficit in 2011, affected more than 1,100,000
homes while their evolution absence of a substantive change in public policy -
increase to more than 1,500,000 households in 2020.
13% of the housing deficit is quantitative (demand for "new house"), while
87% qualitative (demand "enlargement" and / or "improvement"). The weight of demand
"enhancement" happens largely by insecurity, but lack of coverage
sanitation in the country: power distribution networks and sewage water, mainly.
This topic will take into account the National Plan for Habitat and Housing recently
prepared by the SENAVITAT, we give a strong fight against poverty and inequality, given the
high social return on investment in housing, which leads to improvements in the conditions of
health and education, with consequent progress in reducing the morbidity and
mortality, as well as increasing the possibilities for social advancement.

71

Government Agenda 2013-2018

This is the first National Plan that articulates goals short and long term strategies
housing production, improvement of the environment, diversity programs consonants
social and cultural participation and coordination between the institutions of the central government,
provincial government and local government, and between civil society organizations and
the various financing agents, public and private.
The housing deficit takes into account not only the conditions of housing as a physical unit,
but also the habitat of which is part. The general conditions of habitat are in
figures denote historical and inequities that foster inequality and social exclusion shortcomings.
A project to change the current conditions requires institutional capacity to carry
practice, access to long-term credit and the smooth interaction with stakeholders,
convenient and timely organized.
From the analysis, the PLANHAVI conceptualized the notion of critical housing shortage, to
through which prioritizes the core of the global problem, that is, the sum of claims
"Extension and improvement" on the one hand and "new housing" on the other. From this focus
and depending on the preceding analysis, in 2011, the critical shortage affecting more than 360,000 homes,
while the baseline projection for 2020 suggests increased to more than 500,000 households.
Will in the short and medium term emphasizes the critical demands, particularly,
from those territories and groups in situations of high vulnerability. In this framework,
It will prioritize border areas, consistent with the defense of national sovereignty. Stage
long term, in addition to serving territories and critical groups, which give priority to municipalities
plans include land use regulation, so as to encourage, from the central government,
adequate location of housing units and the strengthening of municipal action
in local development.

72

A through implementation PLANHAVI, raised the goal of 297,000 solutions
housing for 2020 (142.600 new homes and 154,400 shares of enlargement and
improvement), which would mobilize an investment of $ 5,000 million, from
public and private resources, generating employment on average 190,000 people per year.

Research, development and innovation (R + D + I)
Economic growth and the improvement of quality of life are closely related
continuous introduction of new technologies and production practices and social structures.
These technologies are often taken from outside suppliers and some
Sometimes the self-generation of technical knowledge through scientific research.
The national innovation system is made up of Paraguay all persons and
institutions that create and / or disseminate new technologies, so that the productive capacity
can be extended, production costs and environmental impacts and to reduce
they can create new markets that offer new spaces to work.
Paraguay has accumulated a technological dependence, importing much of the
Today technical knowledge needed for the production and trade. This is shown in the balance
Trade with countries in the region and the world, whom Paraguay exported raw materials with low
processing and import products of medium and high technology in increasing volumes. The lack
national technological capacity significantly limits us in debates on the definition and
implementation of strategies for technological sovereignty of medium and long term in areas
strategic as agricultural biotechnology, energy, transport and logistics, utilization
our natural resources with greater added value among others.
Investment in infrastructure for scientific research and development services
technological basis by universities and R & D is one of the lowest in the region.
Investment in human capital must be accompanied by a sustained increase in the provision of
equipment, reagents and materials necessary for the operation of laboratories - are these for
research projects and for the training of new researchers and technologists.
Paraguay has a very low number of researchers in relation to its population
Economically active: 0.32 per 1000 inhabitants of the PEA. The Latin American average is 1.64.
The formation of a critical mass of researchers and technologists require a total rethink of the
institutional and fiduciary management of public funds for science and technology strategies. With
Under current conditions, the formation of research capacity is limited to a frustrating number

Government Agenda 2013-2018

few graduate programs numbered average quality and low-impact projects, thereby
which it is impossible to form teams and those core areas of strategic importance.
On the other hand, efforts to transfer the results of scientific research in Paraguay
They have been minimal. For lack of resources to finance the process of adopting solutions
techniques of users, many projects end up on reports in scientific publications,
which contribute solely on academic merit, without being exploited by industry players
production and society as a whole. The ratio of state universities (mainly) with
its researchers and the environment needs a thorough revision, so as to generate more stimuli
Suitable for increased scientific production and technology transfer. In this sense, until
now, they have not been carried out programs for protection and management of intellectual property
resulting national projects, leaving the national creators vulnerable to possible uses
improper and even without adequate support for business development and dynamic enterprises
new business platform for intensive innovation that the country needs.
The lack of sufficient funding of scientific and innovative projects for the population base
most deprived, it implies a serious risk to delegitimize public investment in the sector.
The projects undertaken in the field of social inclusion, in size and number, have
limited to testimonial experiences very low impact.
Creating a basic researchers and technologists depends largely on how it is done
today children and young people to encourage them to science and entrepreneurship. Meritorious
efforts of the promoters of the Olympics in math, science clubs, fairs
young researchers have been the most important source for scientific initiation, feeding
universities, especially technical courses and basic sciences. The state has increased its
presence to support these initiatives by civil society, although much remains to be done.
The social appropriation through the democratization of access to knowledge is a right
citizens should be promoted at an early stage with younger and participation
educational community.
Large technology-intensive projects have not had the state or private structure
it can be implemented. Investment in centers of excellence and strategic projects of larger size


He
CONACYT is a guiding political body and simultaneously serves funding agency
projects and training grants. A heavy management structure remains dynamism when
operate a growing portfolio of projects in a regulatory framework for public investment not
condice nature of risk and technical uncertainty of scientific research.
In relation to technology parks, we install policy initiatives which converge as the
private sector, universities and the public sector.
We will promote policies for the promotion and development of science and technology parks,
as places of reference for the seed capital and risk and investment capital.
Scientific progress is plotted with competitiveness, new products and innovative services, access
market knowledge and technology, and ability to realize strategic alliances.
In this sense, the Alliance poses PARAGUAY ALEGRE momentum and creating conditions
favorable for the installation of science and technology parks, as organizations
managed by specialized professionals whose main objective is to increase wealth
its community by promoting the culture of innovation and competitiveness of their businesses and
knowledge-generating institutions.
To this end, a scientific and technological park stimulates and manages the flow of knowledge and technology between
Universities, research institutions, companies and markets; promoting the creation and growth
of innovative companies through incubation and centrifugal generation (spinoff), and
It provides other value-added services as well as space and facilities of high quality.
• Modernizing the institutional system for science and innovation, particularly through the
separating the roles of policy definition and fiduciary management sector.

73

Government Agenda 2013-2018

• Strengthen national capacity for scientific research: More and better researchers
groups and institutions that generate knowledge.
• Strengthen national capacity for technological innovation: More and better links between
productive sector, civil society and suppliers of new technologies.
• Encourage scientific initiation and training of a new generation of young leaders for
innovation and change.

POWER
The leading role that energy plays in the development process of a country is so important
a government should pay special attention to the management in this discipline.
Paraguay has abundant hydroelectric energy resources especially, and a market
small domestic consumer, allowing you to have plenty of surplus electricity.
This advantage should be exploited for national development.
Paraguay's energy matrix is ​​composed of: petroleum, electricity and biomass.
According to the latest available data on resource consumption still predominates
Biomass with 53%, followed by hydrocarbons 34% and finally 13% Electricity.
State Companies operating in the sector administering the sub-sources
commercial energy are:
• ANDE
• PETROPAR
• ITAIPU (BINACIONAL)

74

• YACYRETA (BINACIONAL)
They have varying degrees of participation of the following organizations:
• Ministry of Public Works and Communications
• Ministry of Industry and Trade
• Ministry of Finance
• Ministry of Foreign Affairs
• Ministry of Planning
• National Economic Team
In the absence of a single authority governing the sector, the role and the strong presence of features
the companies listed at the beginning.
Nor is there a coordinated energy policy and sectoral regulation is diffused between
ministerial departments and state enterprises.
While liquid fuels, domestic gas, oil exploration and the biomass
private presence is very significant, the private sector is largely absent from the electricity sector,
except for outsourced services.
Despite having enough hydropower, and to meet energy demand
the country, their presence in the national energy mix to final consumption level is not representative.
The energy sector is too important a place in the economic and social spectrum in the
country, so it is inevitable the need to formulate a REAL STATE POLICY
for the treatment of their problems, seeking, inter alia:
• Using the energy available for development.
• Maximize the benefits from participation in the Binational Entities.
• To encourage prospecting and exploration of hydrocarbons with the aim of exploitation,
attending the apparent existence of oil and gas on our territory.

Government Agenda 2013-2018

• Convert to Paraguay, using its strategic geographical location and its great potential in the country
more attractive for industrial investment in the region.
In that sense our strategic lines are:
• Establish state policies on energy
• Develop a new model for the energy sector through restructuring
institutional entities, creating an appropriate legal framework for the coordinated management of the
public and private sectors.
• Developing a new model for the energy sector, to facilitate economic development and
office of Paraguay, prioritizing the use of existing energy resources in the country.
• Strengthen the role of the state as regulator and facilitator of private activities, streamlining
access to different agents.
• Open the power sector, encouraging private sector participation in activities
electricity generation, to increase energy availability.
• Strengthen the ANDE, with better legal conditions that allow greater efficiency and flexibility
in its management, regaining its self-sufficiency.
Institutional Restructuring
Creating an institution that will be energy government authority responsible for designing the
energy policy and coordinate the necessary actions to comply with it.
Its basic functions are as follows:
• Design and coordinate energy policy with other agents and / or entities actions
necessary for their implementation.
• Guide the energy sector in general and the private in particular, in their decision making
investments.
• Being the authority granting operating licenses and concessions manager.
• Conduct studies, resource inventories, analysis, projections, and technical assessments
economic and energy sector.
• Manage and coordinate the raising of financial resources and international cooperation.
• Participate in the management of all energy companies in which the state owns or
is a shareholder.
• Control the management of companies.
• To represent the national government in the process of regional energy integration.
Regional Energy Integration
• Leverage the different availability and energy demands in the region.
• Perform the necessary investments in infrastructure for regional interconnection.
• Adapt laws and regulations considering principles of symmetry and reciprocity, which
enable effective energy integration and that they ensure transparency and protect
energy sovereignty of Paraguay
• To promote integration projects and energy complementation, as the gas corridor
(Pipeline) from Bolivia, to enable the development of a national gas market, generating
thermoelectric allocated for regional market and basically enable the connection
natural gas exploration prospects of national origin.
State Policy on Energy

75

Government Agenda 2013-2018

Develop and implement a plan to guide the agents of the sector which shall:
• institutionally reorganize the energy sector, providing it with a simple structure, agile, that
allow, under single management, better coordination and control of the sector.
• Establish a comprehensive legal framework to ensure investments in the sector.
• Making the institutional restructuring of the sector as a whole and review the legal framework of
Each state enterprise in such a way to achieve coordinated work.
• Provide the infrastructure investment needs of each sector and the corresponding
financial sources.
• Based on potential energy reserves and raise incentives for the use of sources
renewable energy.
• Establish policies for the marketing of electric energy, oil and
derivatives and other energy, seeking diversification and complementarity of resources
nationals within the regional context, allowing operate, industry players, as
coordinated.
• Set tariff structures that reflect efficient costs of production including the
from the change of the currency in the case of imported inputs or to repay debts
hard currency (if electricity and fuels).
• Establish and conduct a program of efficient use of energy, to rationalize resources
available.
• Include in the national grid, energy resources to replace biomass, and dependence
oil, safely and reliable supply at affordable prices. Natural gas,
biodiesel, ethanol, solar and wind power, are the raw materials that must be seized.

76

• Promoting the establishment of companies or cooperatives producing biodiesel from oils
coconut, castor and other oil.
• Boost to Paraguay as a center of regional interconnection and energy exchange.
• Encourage the prospecting, exploration and exploitation of deposits of liquid hydrocarbons and
natural gas on national territory, thereby seeking to diversify energy resources and enrich
available in the country.
Model of the Energy Sector
• Development of a new model for the energy sector, to facilitate economic development and
office of Paraguay, prioritizing the use of existing energy resources in the country.
• Strengthen the role of the state as regulator and facilitator of private activities, streamlining
access to different agents.
• Opening the electricity sector, encouraging private sector participation in activities
electricity generation, to increase energy availability.
• Strengthen the ANDE, with better legal conditions that allow greater efficiency and flexibility
in its management, regaining its self-sufficiency.
Legal framework
Adapt the sector's legal framework especially that of government that allows the Company
better use of resources:
• Electric power


• Private sector



• ANDE



• Binational

Government Agenda 2013-2018

• Natural gas


• Private sector



• COMIGAS

• Oil and liquid fuels


• Private sector



• PETROPAR

Renewable energy
• Transforming solar energy into electrical energy for use in isolated regions,
especially in the Paraguayan Chaco.
• Consider the use of wind power according to the availability of
resource to enhance the availability of electricity in those regions.
• To promote the production of alcohol for energy use especially for transport
• Encourage projects Biofuels from agricultural production in marginal areas
(I cocueré) as Mbocaya, spurge and others.
• Afforestation and reforestation for energy purposes.
• Conversion of industrial waste and waste into biogas and electricity.
• Creation of an observatory of renewable energies.
Sector Investment and Financing
• redirect the application of royalties (royalties) from binational bodies to
development activities of the national infrastructure.
• Apply appropriate rates, by establishing a pricing system based on costs
economic, which treats especially investment without neglecting the social aspect.
• Promote the establishment of Public-Private Partnerships to accelerate investments
infrastructure.
• Financing with international sovereign bonds and credit institutions.
It is necessary to enhance the resources available and correct existing flaws, one
restructuring of the sector, so as to ensure efficient development of energy supply to
support a process of sustained growth of the national economy and improve competitiveness
Paraguayan economy internationally and especially in the regional.
• Accelerate the energy coverage in the country, to facilitate the implementation of industries and
business.
• Improve and expand the infrastructure of the national electricity system, in order to provide a service
Reliable for the entire population.
• Ensuring energy supply users with a quality of service commensurate
with their needs;
• Take advantage of opportunities arising from regional integration in energy,
• Diversify energy sources, especially renewables.
• Rational and Efficient Use of Energy in all sectors
• Create opportunities in domestic trade, with private sector participation,
• Generate employment by investing in infrastructure.
• Reduced power losses, to reduce costs and improve efficiency ANDE
• Enter the natural gas in the national energy mix.

77

Government Agenda 2013-2018

• To promote the construction of pipelines.
• Involve the national capital in the potential markets in the region.
• Achieve improved electrical service continuity by reducing to the minimum
inevitable and necessary power outages.

PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIP (PPP)
In addition to the need to combat poverty and inequality through the provision of
modern public services, the people of Paraguay require infrastructure and equipment
and quality. Special attention deserves the road corridor linking, from east to west, Asuncion, the
capital and largest city in the country, with Ciudad del Este, the second Paraguayan population
importance and main commercial hub of the country and gateway to Brazil.
The modernization of this communication channel is essential to attract investment
productive, and to increase the productivity of its economy.
However, levels of public investment, in particular those relating to public works, have had
unfavorable development in recent years. The share of investment in public works
in the state budget he has suffered significant setbacks. This reduction was due in
largely to the economic and financial crisis of 1994, which has evolved in parallel with a
Explosive population growth. It goes without saying that the contraction in investment spending has
open the gap between demand for services and the ability of management to address them.

78

Given the scarcity of public resources, the Government of Paraguay has decided to use
public-private partnerships as a possible way to finance infrastructure and
public facilities. One form of investment in APP are made in the form
concession, which are not public spending and allow incorporating entrepreneurship,
management and funding of the private sector in the provision of public works, increasing investment
made with budgetary resources.
The private sector participation in infrastructure financing of public services is
a strategic line that we propose as Alliance Paraguay Alegre, to reduce constant
restrictions it faces in this area.
We propose actions to improve the country's competitiveness by improving the
connectivity and make effective and efficient use of Public Private Partnerships Tools:
• Promote the establishment and strengthening of the legal and institutional framework for PPPs
• To establish a special unit level of the Presidency of the Republic, working in
coordination with other levels of government to institutionalize PPP processes.
• Build capacity in line ministries to develop PPP projects
• Develop a roadmap of priority projects to be subject to the APP mode Airports,
Ports, Waterway, roads, utilities, etc.
• Manage and promote PPP law for Investment Promotion that is being studied
in the legislature.

TOURISM
PARAGUAY ALEGRE be promoted by the Alliance Policy for our country to be constituted in the center
of trade and regional recreation, with the characteristic values ​​of the idiosyncrasies
Paraguay, which are sincere hospitality and professionalism, competitive prices, etc.
It will promote the adoption of high quality standards, making tourism one of the most
important generators of resources in the economy, reducing poverty, creating, formalizing
and strengthening jobs.
It will promote sustainable economic growth of the tourism industry through an effort
joint actors through Public-Private Partnerships to Strengthen
Master Tourism Plan by the National Secretariat of Tourism, which requires a set of
perfectly planned and aimed at achieving specific objectives as actions:

Government Agenda 2013-2018

• Provide Paraguay of a long-term tourism development and positioning.
• Increase visibility of Paraguay as a tourist destination.
• Structure the management and promotion of tourism in Paraguay.
• Increase the number of tourists coming to the country.
• Increase per capita spending and increasing their average stay.
In addition, to successfully develop the overall objectives of the Plan are to be
take into consideration a series of partial objectives, including, from this proposal
tentatively they are:
• Identify and correctly evaluate existing and potential resources, and analyze the effort
required to become tourism products and services.
• Know the country's tourism potential and existing demand, and have a clear idea of
potential growth markets.
• Identify gaps and areas for improvement of tourism management from the point of view
public administration and from the point of view of the private sector.
• Creating an efficient tourism planning and effective management structure that allows
properly exploit resources sustainably and providing it with the necessary resources.
• Strengthen the relationship between public administration and private, national and international business
to promote the development of the tourist company.
• Develop support tools necessary for the full development of the Master Plan
Tourism.

SOCIO ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT INTEGRATED Paraguayan Chaco
Macro level: Global Vision Project.
Paraguay, a rich and strategic landlocked country in the heart of Latin America, is the way
shorter to integrate the rich and prosperous regions of the Atlantic to the Pacific and to access
the major consumer markets of Asia and the Pacific.
The bi-oceanic corridor of the Tropic of Capricorn to be completed in the next three
years - 2013 to 2016, linking through the Paraguayan Chaco, important departing Regions
from Santos and Paranagua and go through Mato Grosso and Mato Grosso do Sul in Brazil, Salta, Jujuy,
Tucuman, Corrientes, Chaco, Formosa and other provinces of Argentina. Besides all Bolivia,
Antofagasta, Iquique, Chile, Peru's Ilo and Matarani. This will allow together, integrating their
productive, industrial, commercial and service resources, can offer the world consumption
food and high-tech industrial products, goods and services, in large quantity. High
the highest international quality and competitive prices.
The Bi-Oceanic Corridor Tropic of Capricorn constitutes a territorial strip
approximately 1000 km. wide, which links the Atlantic to the Pacific by the Paraguayan Chaco.
It has approximately 50 million potential consumers and allows us to access
with our expanded production, the large Asian market, which has more than 2,000,000,000
potential consumers of agricultural food and agribusiness derivatives.
It is an important peripheral region to the largest shopping centers in Santiago, Buenos
Aires, Sao Paulo. Santiago and Lima, where the greatest wealth and natural resources are located
throughout Latin America, as are the largest reserves of natural gas and oil, the largest
hydroelectric plants, the largest reservoir of fresh water on the planet, the major grain producing and
livestock, the largest reserves of iron ore and other, hand-young, trainable work and
highly-competitive and geographic location in the heart of America. That is, has the
major potentially productive wealth of the world, where we should have full occupancy
the abundant labor, with excellent income, high quality of life for all in
We inhabit this region.

79

Government Agenda 2013-2018

The project of the bi-oceanic corridor of the Tropic of Capricorn, originates initiatives
business groups G.E.I.C.O.S. in 1977. He is driven by the Governors
the ZICOSUR in 1997. Finally, it is assumed by the central governments of the six countries
Participants mentioned, through IIRSA, with funding from the IDB, CAF, FONPLATA and other
international financial institutions. Thus regionally integrate productive chains and
economic. This involves science and technology, multimodal transport and logistics, education, health,
tourism, universities and technology centers.
Micro level and specific to project implementation.
The Paraguayan Chaco has a surface area of ​​247,000 km2 and represents
approximately 61% of the Paraguayan territory with only 3% of the total population
from the country.
There we will implement the following projects:
Central Corridor could Tropic of Capricorn
Aqueduct (At full implementation in the current government)
Commercial and Industrial Zone
Electric power
Professional Technical Training Centers (specific to the requirements of development)
Housing Construction and Sustainable Health Centers
In this way, we will transform the Paraguayan Chaco in a friendlier, Living Area,
passable, and value-added production. E integration at national, regional and
International.

80

Central Bi-Oceanic Corridor Project of the Tropic of Capricorn.
Initially this will only rodoviario Corridor. Subsequently also be rail
to continue the Brazilian road system, which had as its terminal point the border town
Puerto Murtinho. This is done by building a bridge rodoferroviario
the Paraguay River to the Paraguayan city of Carmelo Peralta. In order to achieve the route
shorter and cheaper, this Corridor would aim directly at Mariscal Estigarribia, by
Lieutenant Montanía and not go through the Mennonite colonies, at the request of its inhabitants
and authorities. Then continue with the dominant westbound called Picada 500, to
Cross Don Silvio, becoming the last in strategic point of bifurcation Corridor
projected, because from this place, and one international route, access to be achieved
Republic Argentina through the International Bridge Pozo Hondo Cities of Paraguay
Peace and mission of Argentina. And for the west, through the village of Infante Rivarola, to
territory of Bolivia, with an approximate length of 530 Km., from Puerto Murtinho up
Pozo Hondo. This work will be completed over the next three years, with a total cost of USD
-calculando 574.373.00 USD 304 million by Km.-.

Government Agenda 2013-2018

81

VERDE PARAGUAY
ENVIRONMENT AND NATURAL RESOURCES

ENVIRONMENTAL DEVELOPMENT OF PARAGUAY
Contribute to the achievement of development
NATIONAL SUSTAINABLE PROMOTING
SUSTAINED GROWTH, INCLUSIVE
AND EQUITABLE, A PUBLIC POLICY
ENVIRONMENTAL innovative and modern.

Government Agenda 2013-2018

CHAPTER III
VERDE PARAGUAY
Environment and Natural Resources

Paraguay environmental development will contribute to national sustainable development,
promoting sustained, inclusive and equitable growth, creating more opportunities
for all, reducing inequalities, improving basic living standards, promoting
equitable social development and inclusion, among other things.
Paraguay, on environmental matters, has significant comparative advantages to achieve
environmental development and thus contribute to the sustainability of development and eradicating
poverty and fertile surface soil, water, climate advantages, abundant renewable and clean energy,
great biodiversity, nearly 20% of the Paraguayan territory is subject to conservation forests
important mineral resources, etc.
Paraguay currently faces serious and growing environmental problems. The cumulative effects
the unsustainable use of natural resources have seriously compromised the sustainability of
natural ecosystems, air quality, water and soil. The current unsustainability is the
result of bad policies that have been implemented.
The Alliance Alegre Paraguay proposes an innovative and modern environmental public policy, based
in the themes that arise then ruled by an efficient and reformed
environmental institutions, with an improved legal framework and proposing priority achieve
financial sustainability for efficient environmental management.
Investment in environmental infrastructure for achieving environmental development in Paraguay is a
major issue to be addressed from the perspective of environmental sustainability,
considering the huge amount of financial resources needed.

85

Government Agenda 2013-2018

DEVELOPMENT AND TERRITORIAL
PARAGUAY ALLIANCE ALEGRE promote integrated and sustainable resource management
natural functioning ecosystems and to support the economic, social and human development
of Paraguay, and will at the same time prioritizing the conservation and restoration of natural capital,
regeneration, restoration and resilience of ecosystems to current problems and
emerging.
It is necessary and urgent work in a Land Act to the country.
To this effect will be taken into consideration and will deepen the development and management plans
Nationals who have been recently developed by the Government:
• National Logistics Plan (MOPC)
• Transport Master Plan (MOPC)
• National Plan for Habitat and Housing / PLANHAVI (SENAVITAT)
• National Development Framework and Land Management Plan (STP).

WATER RESOURCES
The water resources of Paraguay is a strategic element for the sustainability of development. The
PARAGUAY ALLIANCE ALEGRE address this natural resource from the perspective of management include
Integrated water resources for sustainable development, reaffirming the commitment to the right
Human drinking water and sanitation, which is to be paid gradually to the benefit of
the quality of life of our population.

86

In Paraguay, it has been achieved in 2007, the approval and enactment of the Water Resources Act
(Law No. 3239/2007), on the one hand states that water is an inalienable property of the State and
another, that access to water in sufficient and adequate quality and quantity, is a human right
fundamental. In this sense, we propose the immediate promulgation of the Implementing Decree,
already approved by CONAM, for the immediate implementation of management tools
water, which have been delayed for more than 5 years.
Promoting land restoration initiatives in the framework of cooperation between the
SEAM, with other state institutions, provincial and municipal governments and civil society.
Some of the initiatives to be pursued are:
• Restoration of Lake Ypacarai, with municipalities that have territory in the Lake Basin in
under the Water Resources Act and promoting the creation of the River Basin Authority.
• It must also promote the creation of councils and water in the sub basins of the lake.
• Involvement of businesses and industries such as tanneries, quarries, landfills and stations
services dump their contaminated waste directly into the lake or even have
environmental license. The Lake Ypacarai territories includes 3 departments: Central,
Cordillera and Paraguarí. The drainage of the lake to the river Paraguay is the Salado River.
• Actively work in coordination with the National Commission of the Pilcomayo, in the design,
development and implementation of restoration plans for the channels that make up the range
Pilcomayo alluvial river in the Paraguayan Chaco, particularly the Montelindo River. This work,
must be coordinated with the Public Ministry, also contribute to the restoration of migration
fish from the Paraguay River to the upper reaches of the Pilcomayo and is of great importance for the
supply of water for communities and productive areas of Chaco.

RENEWABLE ENERGY
The surface water resources of Paraguay is closely linked to energy production
hydro, renewable and clean. In this sense the power plays a key role in the
Paraguay development process. As it was stated in the previous chapter, the Alliance Paraguay
Alegre develop a state policy on energy, in which, among other things, from
environmental perspective access to modern and sustainable energy services to be prioritized
helping to eradicate poverty, save lives, improve health and help to meet the needs
basic human. These services are essential for social inclusion and equality

Government Agenda 2013-2018

genres and that energy is also a key input for production.
In the case of hydroelectric dams, as Yacyreta, it intends to continue execution
the proposed repair of social and environmental damage of hydroelectric, under
EBY cooperation with SEAM and civil society organizations, including,
initiatives, designing a system sustainable migration of fish, in combination with
implementation of protected areas in compensation for areas of high biodiversity value
Paraguayan territory lost because of the Yacyreta dam; reversing the Binational Entity
Yacyreta (EBY) in restoring watersheds that contribute to reservoir enforcing regulations
existent; repairing the damage caused by the construction of hydroelectric the People
Mbya, with the acquisition of land in the San Rafael Reserve Area. It will also promote the
land use of all districts in the area of ​​influence of the reservoir.
In the area of ​​influence of Itaipu Binacional, the agency must work with the SEAM, under the
initiative jointly funded by the Global Environmental Fund (GEF, administered by the Bank
World) and Itaipu, called "Paraguay Biodiversity", which includes the restoration of ecosystems,
the creation of cultural and biological corridors and public and private protected areas and
securing land to indigenous communities and promoting agriculture initiatives
Sustainable supply in the basin of the Itaipu hydroelectric plant.
SEAM, Dobernación in cooperation with the Department of Caaguazú and Alto Paraná, with
the municipal governments of the basin and civil society, must continue
the design and implementation of the initiative of legal adaptation (water resources laws and
protection channels) of the Lake Yguasu, including restoration of ecosystems
margin entire lake, streams and springs throughout the basin, which produces much of the flow
used in the hydroelectric plant Acaray.
To move towards sustainability of the energy mix in Paraguay, it intends to promote
the implementation of wind generators and solar power. Also promote the gradual
decreased use of firewood and charcoal as sources of domestic and industrial energy,
prioritizing the generation of energy from industrial and municipal waste and the use
whole fruit of Mbokaja (total acrocomia). The pulp and produce this fruit nut oils
high value for the cosmetics and food, so it is not recommended for use in generating
energy (biofuel). Instead, both the scale and the pit of Mbokaja are sources
until now wasted energy, which largely can replace firewood for use
domestic as well as in industries like ceramics and others.

BIODIVERSITY
Paraguay wealth of biodiversity is closely interlinked, on the one hand,
with the abundance and availability of fresh water quality, and on the other, with the presence
in its territory of traditional cultures that have survived. PARAGUAY ALLIANCE ALEGRE
will prioritize governance and the enhancement of existing Wildlands Srotegidas (ASP) and
the creation and implementation of new protected areas incorporating the National System
Protected Areas of Paraguay (SINASIP) and implementation of restoration initiatives
biodiverse territories, in synergy with the sustainable restoration and management of territories
giving producers fresh water.
Due to the high environmental value, especially in biodiversity restoration it is proposed policies,
conservation and sustainable management of wetlands (Ramsar Convention). The territory of Paraguay
It is crossed from north to south, the central valley of the River Plate Basin. The vast floodplain
the Paraguay River and its continuation in the middle and lower Parana River, are structurally,
the main valley, or central valley of the River Plate Basin. This great depression determines a continuous
hydrological and biological wetland, which stretches from north to south from the Upper Great Pantanal
Paraguay, through the Lower Chaco marshes, wetlands of San Pedro, Ypacarai, and Ypoa
Ñeembucu in Eastern Paraguay, the wide floodplain of the Parana river, the Esteros del Yvera,
to the Parana Delta, forming the largest wetland system in the world, covering
more than 400,000 square kilometers, drained by a nearly continuous main channel
4,000 kilometers, free of dams and comprising more than 20 million people.

87

Government Agenda 2013-2018

FORESTS
The intrinsic value of the forests of Paraguay, as well as the ecological, genetic,
social, economic, scientific, educational, cultural, recreational and aesthetic values ​​of diversity
biological and primordial role in maintaining ecosystems that provide
essential services, are essential for sustainable development and human welfare bases.
The environmental, social and economic benefits of forests of Paraguay for
people, provide a wide range of products and services, creating opportunities for
address many of the most pressing problems of sustainable development.
A particularly special treatment is proposed at Wildlife Protected Areas (ASP) public and private,
that make up the National System of Protected Areas (SINASIP) with its various categories of
protection and management in the framework of Law 352/94 of Protected Areas. A key issue
and a sine qua non for sustainable management of protected areas, is the formalization of
title and the measurement of the same. Also, you must ensure active participation in
the respective Management Committees of the envelopes communities, particularly communities
indigenous people whose ancestral lands are protected areas; local governments and
civil society organizations. And in the same sense, you must ensure investment in infrastructure
the functions required to meet these ASP as well as park rangers.
The development, approval and promulgation of a law on zero deforestation is also proposed,
for the Chaco, or at least a law banning deforestation (changing land use) in the
area of ​​the Biosphere Reserve of the Chaco, as was recognized by the UNESCO MAB committee
and Resolution 1281/11 of the SEAM. Importantly, the Central Chaco forest
remaining in this Biosphere Reserve is part of the territory of groups of Indigenous People
Ayoreo still living in voluntary isolation.

88

CLIMATE CHANGE. Desertification, drought and degradation of the Earth
At present, the main engine of social and environmental problems on the planet is the
process of global warming. Address current and future consequences of this process
It is one of the priorities to be addressed by the Alliance PARAGUAY ALEGRE. Desertification
Major areas of the country, is closely related to both the change
climate as the degradation of ecosystems and water. The issue of
both phenomena will be addressed by the Alliance Alegre Paraguay through priority actions, such
as, in synergy with the work that focus towards the restoration of water and biodiversity,
the restoration of degraded areas of the country, as well as the sustainable management and
conservation of healthy ecosystems, which are protected areas.
The Alliance Paraguay Alegre considers essential to recognize the economic and social importance
of good land management, including soil, and in particular its contribution to growth
economic, biodiversity, sustainable agriculture and food security, eradication
poverty, empowerment of women, measures to deal with climate change and
increase the availability of water.
We propose that plans for adaptation to climate change, should create synergies with
mitigation. Therefore, it must treat in building resilience
(Resilience) of local communities, particularly indigenous and other traditional communities
vulnerable, such as farmers, fishermen and inhabitants of urban lowlands through
conservation, restoration and sustainable management of ecosystems in their territories. East
approach will contribute effectively to build security and food sovereignty, conservation
and restoration of water sources and protect communities of weather conditions
extremes (droughts and floods) that can be expected (and already they have been demonstrating
in recent years) in our country and our region. At the same time, with these actions,
effectively contribute to the mitigation of global warming, as these ecosystems
restored and managed sustainably, are themselves effective sinks of greenhouse
The Government of Paraguay negotiations under the Framework Convention of Nations
United Nations Climate Change should be addressed to the enforcement, by
developed countries, to pay its historic debt to have been the main causes of
climate change. The assumption of common but differentiated responsibilities, involves
provision of adequate and sufficient funding and the unrestricted transfer of technology,
for creditor countries, such as Paraguay, to adapt to the impacts of these changes.

Government Agenda 2013-2018

It is critical, therefore, mobilizing funds from a variety of sources,
public and private, bilateral and multilateral, including innovative sources of financing,
to support appropriate mitigation measures, adaptation measures, technology development, and
transfer and capacity building in developing countries.
For the effective implementation of international commitments on Climate Change,
Paraguay Alegre alliance commits to install the National Office for Climate Change
SEAM, as expressed in the decree creating the National Climate Change Program, and
whose implementation he never took place. We also propose developing operational plans
National Climate Change Policy with the participation of governmental and non-
government, as part of the National Climate Change Commission. This Commission should be
strengthened for the effective national monitoring of the implementation of the National Policy Change
Climate and for monitoring the negotiations on this issue.

Ridges, hills and LIFTS
The benefits of ridges, hills and elevations of Paraguay, are essential to
sustainable development. These ecosystems play a crucial role in providing resources
water to a large part of the population of Paraguay; the hills and elevations are especially
vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change, deforestation and degradation
forests, changing the land use, land degradation and natural disasters, with effects
growing on the environment and human welfare.
PARAGUAY ALLIANCE ALEGRE proposes to adopt a long-term vision and holistic approaches,
in particular by incorporating specific policies for these chains of hills and
Paraguay elevations in national sustainable development strategies.

MINERAL RESOURCES
Minerals, and non-renewable natural resource, and metals make a major contribution to the
economy and modern societies. The industrial development of Paraguay will be contributed by
mining industries are important and contribute to national development. Mining offers
opportunity to catalyze broad-based economic development, reduce poverty and contribute
to achieve the internationally agreed development goals, including the Millennium
Development Goals, when managed effectively and properly. ALLIANCE PARAGUAY
ALEGRE raises maximize the social and economic benefits and address so
effective environmental and social negative effects.

SOLID WASTE AND CHEMICALS
The sustainable management of solid waste is a pending debt with the public. PARAGUAY
ALEGRE make a strong sustainable management innovation with a building process
public awareness and joint action with municipal governments to manage the
solid waste, which are focused on the complete cycle of waste: production, harvesting
and finally available. Likewise the sound management of chemicals is
fundamental to the protection of human health and the environment.
Increasing global production and use of chemicals is increasing concern
in relation to its adverse impacts. The management of chemicals poses-in
especially dangerous-toxic and which are used in industry and agriculture, confronts
mainly through the legal adequacy of all productive enterprises, with
For existing regulations governing the use and disposal of these
chemical substances.

ENVIRONMENTAL EDUCATION
PARAGUAY ALLIANCE ALEGRE implement environmental education as a component part
the country's education system at all levels, for the integration of sustainable development
more actively in the education system of Paraguay. Environmental awareness will be promoted
and the involvement of all sectors, especially civil society, to achieve management
efficient environmental.

89

Government Agenda 2013-2018

DISASTER RISK REDUCTION
Reducing disaster risk and increasing resilience of communities to
disasters constitute priority actions Alliance PARAGUAY ALEGRE. Reducing exposure
risk and protect people, infrastructure, and other vulnerable ecosystems goods
nationals of the effects of disasters, in line with the Hyogo Framework for Action,
taking appropriate and effective measures, taking into account the three dimensions of development
sustainable, in particular through the strengthening of institutional capacities,
coordination and cooperation between the local central government, departmental government and industry
private and civil society.
• Environmental Diplomacy
• Institutional Environmental Efficient and Reformed
• Environmental Infrastructure

Sustainable Production and Consumption

90

PARAGUAY ALLIANCE ALEGRE promote sustainable patterns of consumption and production
taking into account the principles of Rio 92, including, among others, the common responsibility but
differentiated. It is essential to achieve fundamental changes in the way our society
It produced and consumed for sustainable development. Promoting government organizations
relevant international, private sector and all production and consumption sectors,
They must play an active role in changing unsustainable consumption
and production. In this regard, the Alliance poses Paraguay Alegre encourage and promote the development
a framework in support of national efforts to create change towards consumption and
sustainable production in order to promote economic and social development within the limits
the carrying capacity of ecosystems, decoupling economic growth
and degradation of the environment by increasing the efficiency and sustainability
resource utilization and production processes and reducing degradation
resources, pollution and waste.
In line with the current National Environmental Policy (NAP), the Alliance proposes Alegre Paraguay
stimulate the economy by gradually restructuring of production processes, introducing
the principles of sustainability in the sectors of production and services and to promote prevention
pollution and ecosystem degradation. Additional proposes increasing
efficiency of production processes through the sustainable use of land, water, energy and
other inputs, encouraging reuse, recovery and recycling with the adoption of good
environmental management practices.
PARAGUAY ALLIANCE ALEGRE, also proposes the legal adequacy of productive lands,
working with producer groups. This legal adjustment should be based on the application of the
established in the Forestry Law (Law No. 422/73 Forest); the Water Resources Act (Act No. 3239/2007
WATER RESOURCES Del Paraguay); the Law on Protection of Water Channels (Law No. 4,241 / 10);
Law 2524/2009, Zero Deforestation in the Eastern Region; Law No. 96 of Wildlife; the law
352/2009, protected wildlands of Paraguay; the laws of protection
agrochemicals (Act No. 123/91 adopting new forms of Plant Protection Law No. 3,742 / 09
"Control of plant protection products for agricultural use" and Decree No. 2,048 / 04 "whereby repealing the
Decree 13,861 / 96 and the use and management of agricultural pesticides is regulated established in the
Law 123/91), among other laws. To achieve this adaptation, we must work from the
SEAM, through cooperation agreements with productive sectors, mainly cooperatives
medium and large producers, to the environmental soundness of the colonies.

ENVIRONMENTAL DIPLOMACY
PARAGUAY ALLIANCE ALEGRE seek greater inclusion of Paraguay in the world on the issues
environmental, so it is essential to strengthen the capabilities for compliance and
Paraguay's active participation in the processes related to the International Conventions
all related to environmental and sustainable development issues.
We propose a process leading Paraguay international negotiations on
international environmental conventions and positioning itself as a leader in the region (if UN

Government Agenda 2013-2018

REDD). This involves the implementation of a greater coordination and cooperation between conventions
chemicals and waste, namely the Basel Convention, the Rotterdam Convention, the
Stockholm Convention, the Strategic Approach to chemicals management and
like the Vienna Convention and its Montreal Protocol.
• Build a team of high qualification for the fulfillment of international commitments
and implementation in the country of ratified laws.
• Working with the MRE synergistic.
• Create a team of experts in environmental diplomacy.
As for compliance with international commitments, it is important to highlight some
the following international conventions that were ratified by Law in Paraguay, whose
Paraguay implementation must have a strong process of strengthening:
• Law No. 583/76 - "approving and ratifying the convention on international trade in species
endangered wild fauna and flora (CITES) "
• Law No. 61/92 - "approving and ratifying the Vienna Convention for the protection layer
Ozone, adopted in Vienna on 22 March 1985; the Montreal Protocol on Substances
depleting the ozone layer, concluded in Montreal on 16 September 1978, and the amendment
Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer, adopted in London,
June 29, 1990, during the second meeting of States Parties of the Montreal Protocol "
• LAW No. 251 / 93- "Approving the Convention on Climate Change, adopted during the conference
United Nations Conference on Environment and Development - the Earth Summit held in
the city of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil "
• LAW No. 1447 / 99- "To approve the Kyoto Protocol to the UNFCCC"
• Law No. 253/93 - "Approving the Convention on Biological Diversity, adopted at the
United Nations Conference on Environment and Development - the Earth Summit,
held in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil "
• Law No. 350/94 - "Approving the Convention on Wetlands of International Importance
especially as Waterfowl Habitat (RAMSAR) "
• Law No. 970/96 - "approving the United Nations Convention to Combat
Desertification in countries affected by serious drought or desertification, particularly in Africa "
• Law No. 1314/98 - "Approving the Convention on the Conservation of Migratory Species
wild animals. "
• LAW No. 2309 / 03- "Approving the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety of
Convention on Biological Diversity.
• Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants
• Basel Convention on the control of transboundary movements of wastes
hazardous and deletion
• Rotterdam Convention on the Prior Informed Consent procedure applicable
certain hazardous chemicals and pesticides in international trade
• Nagoya Protocol ON ACCESS TO GENETIC RESOURCES AND FAIR AND
EQUITABLE SHARING OF BENEFITS ARISING FROM THEIR USE

EFFECTIVE ENVIRONMENTAL INSTITUTIONS AND REFORMED
The Ministry of Environment of Paraguay (SEAM) was established by Act 1561 in 2000.
SEAM is currently implementing body of some 35 laws on environmental protection,
biodiversity, water resources, the environmental licensing, fishing areas
protected wildlife, among others. However, this weak institution of the Paraguayan State,
Despite having nearly doubled its budget over the past five years, the year 2012 had a
poor budget that did not exceed $ 7 million from 10, is
ie genuine national treasure resources. The public budget dedicated to environmental issues
in Paraguay gives us the true pattern of the place it has occupied the environment priorities
policies of successive governments.

91

Government Agenda 2013-2018

In this sense, the alliance PARAGUAY ALEGRE, proposes a reform leading to a
structural modernization of the Ministry of Environment in its capacity as enforcement authority and agency
rector of more than 35 laws, many of which are international conventions ratified by Paraguay.
Actions to be Taken
Innovation and Structural Strengthening Environmental Institutions
• Environmental Authority for Excellence: SEAM
• Raise category SEAM Ministry to have an impact on the National Economic Team.
• Innovation and structural modernization of the SEAM: considering, among other priorities, the creation
the Directorate General of Air Quality and the reunification of the different institutions
environmental, into one.
• Strong strengthening the institutional capacities of the SEAM
• Both the National Environmental System (SISNAM) and the National Environment Council) CONAM
They do not fulfill their functions established in the Law from 1561 to 1500, therefore it should raise
a reform of the law or at least to strengthen these agencies to search
answers and solutions to environmental problems, in the first case, and to deliberate, consult and
PAN define, in the second case.
• Strengthening of human capacities of environmental institutions: income
meritocracy, continuous training, etc.Fortalecimiento capacities for achieving
financial sustainability of environmental management: Environmental Fund, implementation of the 3011 Act, Dieting
of offenses and penalties, PPP, trust funds, the polluter pays principle, etc.

92

It is essential to strengthen environmental governance Paraguay, which is given under the
National Environmental System (SISNAM), composed of the SEAM and the National Environment Council
(CONAM), the Executive and the National Commission for Protection of Natural Resources
(CONADERNA) in Parliament. Both CONAM as CONADERNA are multisectoral forums
with participation of governmental actors and civil society. These forums, with the greatest
role, and synergistic action; together with the National Commission on Climate Change,
the National Commission on Multiple Use of Cuenca and Pilcomayo River Delta, the
Tips for Water and Watershed Management Committees of protected areas are critical
to ensure the effective participation of citizens in the preservation, restoration and management
sustainable natural assets.

ENVIRONMENTAL INFRASTRUCTURE
Environmental Infrastructure Investment: Approximately USD 10,000 million would be needed
for the next 20 years, in the following instruments for environmental management and infrastructure
corresponding:
• SEAM building infrastructure and Decentralized Regional Centers (to be constructed
criteria of bioclimatic architecture and eco-efficient).
• Infrastructure for water and sanitation, including tertiary treatment of
domestic sewage departmental capitals. Full coverage in drinking water and
sanitation by 2025, under the fulfillment of the Millennium Development Goals.
• Infrastructure for the comprehensive treatment of urban solid waste in all Districts
of Paraguay.
• Infrastructure for treatment of industrial, agricultural, medical waste,
toxic and hazardous, etc. Develop a catalog of special, hazardous waste, and facilitate
private investment to achieve its differentiated management.
• Infrastructure for the "integrated management of water resources in Paraguay:
• Infrastructure for the establishment of the Authorities of the 20 Watersheds
SEAM defined as an effective instrument of environmental decentralization,
• Infrastructure for implementation in the 20 hydrographic basins of different
water management instruments established by Law 3239/07, such as:

Government Agenda 2013-2018

• National Water Resources Policy.
• Water balance (hydro meteorological monitoring stations)
• National Inventory of Water.
• National Water Resources Plan
• National Register of Water Resources
• Granting permits and exploitation concessions and uses (human consumption,
industrial, agricultural, recreational, energy, navigation, etc.).
• water quality laboratories.
• Canon extraction and disposal (application of the polluter pays principle).
• Infrastructure for sustainable management of protected areas:
• Surveying and titling.
• Tourist infrastructure
• Research Infrastructure for biodiversity, water, air and soil.
• Infrastructure for commissioning evaluation of historical, cultural, archaeological,
etc., of the protected areas.
• Laboratories.
• Construction and equipping of the Museum of Natural History of Paraguay.
• Infrastructure for sustainable management of wildlife:
• Investment in commercial and scientific breeding species of native wildlife.
• seed banks and germplasm
• Enhancement of wild fruits and export and industrialization.
• Enhancement of medicinal plants and knowledge. Controlled use of
protected species from ecosystems.
• Infrastructure for measuring and monitoring air quality throughout Paraguay and especially
in metropolitan areas and transportation corridors.
• Infrastructure to have an efficient system of environmental information.
• Infrastructure for the construction of land-use plans of all districts and
promotion and monitoring of environmental management in them.
• Ecosystem restoration
• Infrastructure for the promotion of sustainable production and consumption, as well as
cleaner production mechanisms.
• Infrastructure for research and development related to climate change, especially
in agriculture and greater social vulnerability, early warning systems, management
and emergency measures aimed at better preparation for the possibility of increasing
climate-related extreme events.
• Infrastructure for the installation of an Environmental Technology Park.

93

PARAGUAY EFFICIENT

THIS MEANS A CHANGE IN THE
ACTORS: KNOWLEDGE OF
SKILLS AND COMPETENCE
As a factor that will strengthen the
ECONOMIC GROWTH, NEW CREE
SY BEST WAYS OF PARTICIPATION
CITIZEN AND STRENGTHEN THE CAPACITY
PUBLIC SECTOR.

Government Agenda 2013-2018

CHAPTER IV
PARAGUAY EFFICIENT
Management Modernization of the State
The new social, political and economic realities require an adaptation of the State to them.
This is a prerequisite for ensuring the development of a country look, proper insertion
International and welfare of all the people who are a citizen.
This means a change in the actors of knowledge. skills and competencies as
a factor that facilitates economic growth, create new and better ways of participation
citizen and strengthen the capacity of the public sector as the main articulator of shares
allow equal opportunities in the many social demands.
The AIANZA PARAGUAY ALEGRE, sees the challenge of reinventing the country and is convinced that
It has the ability to generate these changes since the National Government. it is because of that
is intended to reform and modernize the State, emphasizing coordinated management style,
planned and inclusive.

97

Government Agenda 2013-2018

Country Brand
The first challenge in this axis of the government's agenda is the position the Paraguay as
Country Brand international leader in the energy issue, as a logistics center in the region and as
food producer for the world, which will be able to offer a new image of the country. This
It will push forward regional brands strategies, departmental, municipal,
Private sector and articulating actions with the different government agencies, mixed, private
related to exports, tourism, investment, culture, and professional services
entrepreneurs and workers' trade associations, standing at your service for the realization
this new image of the country. Country Brand establish a true marketing plan according Paraguay
which the country will articulate and make known its position with differentiating factors for success in the world
and in world markets, encouraging exports, the growth of tourism and promotion
investment, as well as, providing her best attributes such as efficiently
its people, its culture, its traditions, its youth, its natural resources, clean energy, music,
its geographic location, its connectivity, among others. All this will allow Paraguay to be
again seen as a country with dignity and Development, which has recovered its values ​​and
Historical principles, forgotten or trampled in recent years.

MODERNIZATION OF THE STATE
The second challenge is aimed at the transformation and innovation of the state in search of an improvement
substantial services and the management of its resources and assets, activities
as its aim to develop a flexible, efficient and transparent governance.
In this regard, institutions and state bodies must become agile bodies and
efficient for the proper fulfillment of the objectives for which they were created, leaving
side mediocrity, unnecessary bureaucracy, inefficiency and corruption.

98

An important matter to be resolved in the State Management aspect is the overlapping of functions and
roles between different public bodies, a situation which creates problems of coordination, duplication
stress, poor utilization of resources and lack of clear definition of responsibilities,
which necessarily leads us to consider major structural changes that allow
faster and more efficient service to citizens.
In the area of ​​Public Administration Reform it will be reorganized, strengthened and provided with the
resources the Ministry of Planning and the Ministry of Civil Service,
how to convert two endowed public institutions the ability and power to contribute
significantly to the effective management and implementation of reform and modernization.
Some of the measures and issues to address immediately are:
• Modernization Act Financial Administration of the Public Sector, where he will contemplate:
• Implement the Treasury Single Account, to avoid idle funds in bank accounts
BCP;
• Harmonization with the Digital Signature Act, to accelerate processes, reduce state bureaucracy
and avoid the use of paper;
• To open the possibility for the MH make investments in the stock market as well
ensure that the BCP will yield with interest at the MH funds held in the bank;
• Improve the quality of public expenditure through in-depth analysis of the contents of the Budget
General's Office;
• Analyze the structure of government and abolish, merge and / or redirect those who are
overlapping and / or similar functions and responsibilities.
• Professionalization of the civil service and strengthening the Career of Public Service
• Redistribution of state officials, after training, to deficit sectors
human resources;

Government Agenda 2013-2018

INTEGRATION AND FOREIGN AFFAIRS
PARAGUAY ALLIANCE ALEGRE is committed to restoring the confidence of society not only
at national but international level so it will promote a series of actions in that regard.
The twenty-first century Paraguay is a country crossroads, as all paths converge towards him and
They intersect at him, at a time when the dominant paradigm is globalization and integration
large blocks of countries. The landlocked was, in the past, becomes its greatest weakness
today, thanks to regional integration, the great strength for development. The Paraguay has
constituted by the circumstances circumstances in a country that can act as a coordinator and it
would enable it to have excellent comparative advantages, as long as we can make this
centrality on a true story through a government capable of creating an infrastructure capable of
uniting the central corridor to the South American country and the world. This will allow you to break the historical
landlocked isolation and become a center for regional distribution. To this effect,
will boost and made some plans are managed by managing the MOPC Efrain Alegre,
such as the National Logistics Plan, Transportation Master Plan, the concession Waterway, the
Concession Airport System and Road Concession of the main routes of the country.
Latin America needs today an articulated integration into the prospect of becoming
a block able to have weight in the world and make decisions respecting their sovereignty.
The integration always involves the coordinated effort, joint planning and co-existence
peaceful among the sectors that make up the block. This is the only way in which the parties can
become a whole, without losing their individuality. It is necessary to build a policy
block complementarity, not competition. Paraguay can not be absent from the process
integration involving solidarity in view of the strengthening of structures
could invigorate the region to counter the economic power of the world that normally
It ignores the problems of the people but their own interests. In this aspect,
strengthen Paraguay's participation in regional bodies such as IIRSA (Initiative
South American Regional) Integration and Cosiplan (UNASUR).
For Paraguay, integration can only be conceived as the hinge of unity between states,
in their joint scheme can strengthen complementarity, not competition.
The integration can be successful if the more developed countries of the region exert
appropriate policy to all and not just a petty national defense hurts the country itself
peaking this policy, while decreasing their own trade capacity and representation
in the world.
Given the landlocked Paraguay, a country without sea coasts, to achieve joint integration
with the other countries of the region, in view of its long awaited development and become a country
visible, respected and developed in the world, must face a major challenge facing the
XXI century convert to Paraguay in the traffic logistics center in the South American central corridor,
Waterway, the airport system and the rail system.
For it must reinvent itself, creating a new domestic transport network to be
you can connect and integrate transmission lines in Brazil-Argentina-Chile and Bolivia to convert
Central to Paraguay in the transit country. Using its abundant power resources, promoting a
initiative of an Electric Railway System that can connect with the systems of Brazil,
Argentina, Chile to transatlantic routes for which it is necessary to install transmission lines
to ensure the logistics / clean, renewable, safe, economical and durable transport network. If achieved
integrate global trade channels using rail transport system with the
Waterway create a multimodal system connections in the South American central corridor, and
thus the limitations of being a landlocked country will be overcome. The changes in transportation, with
changes in the relative cost of each system will generate huge investment opportunities
which will result in the growth of our economy, the demand for jobs and
creation of wealth to the Paraguayan population.
These pathways of communication and approach continental Atlantic with the Pacific allow
establish a Agroindustrial Complex, which will facilitate the development of the Paraguayan Chaco, which
also contribute to the growth of Paraguay
To realize this process a complete reformulation of public administration is needed. They
You must take the step of a chaotic, inefficient, heavy and corrupt organization to an organization
rational, intelligent, effective, efficient, modern and above all transparent, guaranteeing
planning, adoption and implementation of State policies developed by technicians first
level and coordinated with all political, social, business, trade, cultural actors and

99

Government Agenda 2013-2018

academics in the country. Therefore, the training of negotiators and diplomats managers will be prioritized,
economic and trade of highly specialized and differentiated training will be managed
Human resources that enable the country exploit comparative advantages.
Paraguay's future depends on the ability of the political leadership, which allow thinking
and designing the administrative conditions for true renewal and governance.
This will result in a policy of State Modernization and Development Policy to
allows successfully confront the great challenges of reinvent and redesign the Paraguay,
making, an isolated country, a communication node and regional integration, with a
perspective to reach markets around the world, through integration with other States
South Americans. The globalized world we claim to be successful in all aspects of the
national life and this will succeed only through solidarity and further integration
countries that integrate. That capacity mentioned political leadership is guaranteed
PARAGUAY our ALEGRE Project.
For the development of this theme it is proposed:
• Develop an international economic and trade integration policy that strengthens
opening foreign markets, support economic growth and domestic production and
increase national competitiveness.
• Strengthening democracy and the processes of integration and political and economic cooperation
subregional and hemispheric.
• Concentrate efforts to enable the development of an integration policy of "connection
the world ", promoting PPPs (Public Private Partnership) for the construction and improvement
transport infrastructure, energy, communications and information technologies.

100

• promote a program of technical training of young compatriots, according to the possibilities
and needs of the XXI century, to create conditions that allow us to have new talent
human in need of the country to cooperate with the improvement of education, stimulating
international cooperation and assistance, as one of the main strategies for overcoming
poverty and the inclusion of our country in the global knowledge society and information.
• Implement the implementation of mechanisms for dialogue and consultation with Organizations
Civil Society for the purpose of co-participate in the design of a National Foreign Policy
contributing to the creation of a peaceful world order equitable, secure, and worried about the
environmental sustainability.

MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS
The Paraguay does not have a state policy in the long-term perspective, Relationship
International, so the actions of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is ambiguous, dispersed
and incoherent. Primacy of politics, without an economic counterpart in foreign relations.
Absence of a real race officials, while the same move up, by
time, without prior examination of merits and knowledge. The Ministry, while responsible for the
international relations of the country lacks a structured policy with other agencies
State, local governments and civil society.
Paraguay Alegre Alliance will work on the following topics:
• The installation of a system of international relations that seek visibility Paraguay
in the world, integrating politics, economy, trade, culture and the arts in a whole to
Paraguayan achieve stronger image in the world.
• A thorough revision and modernization of the structure of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs
to respond to the State Policy in the industry and to have an agile, modern institution and
inclusive, to be able to articulate an effective and efficient policy.
• Training and education in order to have an adequate diplomatic civil servants to
needs of a globalized world.
• The design of a State Policy for International Relations.
• Updating the Diplomatic Academy to teach courses of medium and long duration
diplomats according to their category.
• The promotion of distance learning courses for duties abroad.

Government Agenda 2013-2018

QUALITY OF PROCESSES AND ELECTRONIC GOVERNMENT
All citizens demand the national government efficiency and effectiveness in relation to the
services and administrative processes that affect them directly and indirectly. All sectors
Paraguayan society that make demand better treatment of them by the State and its
Public administration. The deepest desire of citizens is that there are no walls or
obstacles when trying to interact with it.
Both citizens and civic organizations and businesses expect access to the
various services offered by the state, without having to approach in person offices
agencies to carry out their paperwork, let alone having to wander between them to
receiving a service.
All the above, passes through the quality and modernization of administrative processes industry
public with a comprehensive approach, to incorporate the ICTs (Information and
Communication) as a strategic tool, which is undoubtedly one of the main lines
action to improve the management and transparency of public service.
In this regard, the experience of electronic government (e-gov) in a global society has
It proved to be a system that significantly facilitates the development of nations and increases
cooperation between them. Therefore, e-government has become a necessity for
the growth of any country, since it is regarded as a powerful strategic tool,
which ultimately serves to improve the quality of life of citizens. The world is aware of the
positive influence of ICT and e-government is an essential and global trend.
Our project PARAGUAY ALEGRE, recognizes that e-government is a tool
powerful and strategic for the transformation and modernization and the implementation of
Public Policy, as it is considered a key factor for social change and rising
the competitiveness of a country. Therefore, we have clearly identified the advantages and degree of
importance of electronic government in the process of development of Paraguay.
We realize that GE is a new pattern of demand and assumed as a strategy to
lead and innovate the profound changes that Paraguay needs. The GE is a significant process and
deep, so automate processes, install software and hardware and the Internet, is not enough.
The establishment of an "electronic government" implies a total restructuring of services
public, and an important cultural change, both at the public and the public in
General, which is considered undoubtedly a key factor in its success.
In the framework of implementation of public policies on ICTs at the country level, we propose
the strong momentum of Electronic Government in Paraguay, with specific plans and actions,
accompanied by a significant investment for the development of technical capacities
HR and installation of technological infrastructure required in each of the
agencies and entities.
This will allow us:
• Improve public services: Public services can be resolved more quickly,
access to it through windows of Internet services, means by which it will meet the
different citizen requests without limitation of time, space, and decrease costs.
• Increase access to information: The considerable amount of documents and information
generating public administration may be stored digitally, in an orderly and
structured, in order to achieve almost instant searches and share information so
agile, increasing labor productivity and substantially reducing the time.
• Achieve greater efficiency: It can make better decisions because the information needed
It will be made available in a timely and reliable manner. The quality of political decisions will go
improving to the extent that knowledge sharing leave immediately
between authorities.
• Increasing transparency: The implementation of various integrated information systems
will contribute to improving governance, reducing the gap between public service and
citizen requires.

101

Government Agenda 2013-2018

• Strengthening democracy and governance: Creating new spaces and new forms of
interact with the Government. Citizens can better interact with the government and
influence the decisions. And above all, in the Public Policy through portals and forums
designed for the purpose.
The main factor of success in a project of GE, is undoubtedly the petition of a coherent strategy
and sustained implementation.
We will work in an orderly, systematic and sustained effort on the issue, focusing
some important aspects such as:
• The central and state shareholder is the Citizen's information and services online,
We consider to be a must for an efficient and transparent government and a right to
the whole society.
• Government integrated approach: The strategy is to unite and coordinate efforts, taking into
that all bodies of public administration across the country are responsible for
execution.
• clear and precise method: work hard in a regulatory legal framework to high
strength and impetus to electronic government.
• Appropriation of citizenship: will design communication strategies to the effect that the
GE recognizes that citizenship is an agile, transparent and secure way to communicate with the
Been. And they are trained to use the most convenient and useful form.
First, we will focus on building the technological infrastructure required
for the implementation of electronic government (e-Paraguay). To do this will work:

102

• Strengthening the CERT-PY, through the consolidation of specialized technical equipment
cyber security, focusing preventive security policies and if appropriate take capacity
to react to attacks and cyber threats
• Building Integrated Data Center of the Government, in order to provide services
technological infrastructure for those institutions with limited capabilities
ICT.
• The creation of an internal network of Government (Intranet) that allows connectivity between
institutions and access to public services and management. In this sense, we have to integrate and
co-manage existing networks and enlarge public sector.
• The implementation of the Platform for Interoperability, which will allow the exchange of
information between institutions, achieving the interoperability of their systems. This includes
safety aspects and reduction of time in the efforts of the citizens.
As a second step, we propose to work on Productivity Improvement of Public Management,
from the internal point of view. In that sense, we will promote the following initiatives:
• Strategic planning in relation to the various information systems required
governance for the purpose of prioritizing where we should focus
implementing them in the various institutions, with an inclusive vision
respond to national objectives.
• The design and implementation of performance evaluation indicators of the Electronic Government
help us to constantly measure the degree of maturity of the management within
public and at country level.
Finally, we propose to join efforts to achieve the purpose of providing better services
allow both citizens and businesses and civic organizations, interact so
efficient with the state. To this end, we propose the following:
• The implementation of Integrated Management Information Systems business support, which
we intend to improve the relationship between government agencies and private sector companies,
for the purpose of providing an efficient and effective service to all citizens.
• The implementation of a government portal, through which citizens can access
Windows of online services, portals and forums to participation, with the aim of creating new
spaces and forms of participation and provide better service with higher quality.

Government Agenda 2013-2018

At this point, the implementation of E-Government Public Service will be prioritized in
areas of Education, Health and Safety. This action is related to the creation of the
PY cloud, connecting the premises of the institutions listed at country level.
Our goal is to build an e-government to support national competitiveness, offer
transparent quality services and allow citizens to interact with government offices,
without physical presence in them, without knowing what office use.
With this proposal, the PARAGUAY ALEGRE Project proposes a profound transformation
State, enabling the revitalization of public administration, the management review
internal, promoting inclusive leadership, and finally, switching services to the citizens
efficiency and transparency of public administration renewed.

State Decentralization
Although the 1992 Constitution enshrines a totally radical approach,
in Article 1, as to the form of the state, by stating that the Paraguayan State "is set up
in social rule of law, unitary, indivisible, and decentralized ...., "he never had a Plan
Strategic Plan for the transition from a centralized to a decentralized administration. In spite of
the years that have passed since the promulgation of the Constitution until today there is no law
Regulating the constitutional decentralization that Article and define competencies
and resources of each level of government. The decentralization process of granting
powers, functions and resources from the national government to municipal governments and
Departmental and to other bodies of power is negligible.
In the absence of a regulatory law of decentralization, powers overlaps between
levels of government, thereby obstructing a joint to provide better services to the
population. No definition of resources, reduce the capacity of good management that enables the
Departmental and municipal governments demonstrate effectiveness and efficiency.
Lack of Political Will: In this context an extraordinary political will was needed
of the highest political leadership of the country (the three branches of government) for structural reform
Public Administration, which could guarantee the success of the constitutional postulate. In
short, lack of knowledge, institutional conviction and fundamentally courage
to take responsibility for carrying out the process of modernization of the State and
Decentralization of the state, have made little progress has been in the field.
The national government must necessarily reformulate its current pyramid structure looking
a flat, open structure, which has the
objective optimization of resources
available. So it suggests that the three levels of government (national, departmental and
Municipal) must be related within a system of networks which can be made
better coordination, achieving economies of scale and operating synergies and actions
strategic.
For the realization of this issue we propose:
• Install a new system-wide State Management
• Enhance the capacity of intervention of the various groups and social forces access
agencies and representative office, enabling a better balance and better
scenarios agreement.
• Achieve goals of equity and efficiency in the management of public and social services,
as getting a better governance and strengthening the process of democratization and
social participation.
• Promote a Decentralization Law clearly enough to define skills,
resources of each level of government and the mechanism of relations between the three levels
government.
• Install a process for regional offices of the Central Government Entities
(Ministries) and decentralized entities may be able to respond
specific to the needs of citizens.

103

Government Agenda 2013-2018

• Decentralize administrative processes so far made only in offices
Capital of the Republic, centrally.
• In terms of human resources, strengthen the civil service career, that is, make
competitive examinations for entry and promotion of civil servants. This will provide
with qualified personnel in each area of ​​the Central Government and decentralized governments.
• Search the administrative procedures of resource transfers are clear and transparent,
are written, easily accessible and affordable for all, that the departmental governments and
Municipal have thorough knowledge of the administrative and financial rules for the
Central Government Financial Management.

INTEGRITY AND TRANSPARENCY
The Alliance Paraguay Alegre has prepared a National Anti-Corruption Plan that includes
national and international outlines, translated into programs and projects for prevention
and punishment of corruption.
The design of this Plan part of the experience you had at the Ministry of Public Works and
(MOPC) during the administration of Dr. Efrain Alegre, candidate of the Alliance, where
They created internal investigation units with the participation of citizens in the sense of giving
the real possibility of making allegations of corruption protecting your identity.
The aim is to strengthen the state's role, coordinating actions of the Plan at the national, regional level
and internationally to obtain the objectives of fighting and reducing corruption.
This Plan aims to establish national objectives, specific actions a
preliminary diagnosis and planned investments, as guidelines for a new government, so
that it has a direction and a clear direction for the fight against corruption and impunity.

104

This fight represents a commitment to the Alliance posed Alegre Paraguay addressing
scourge of corruption and fight for seriously considered one of the main causes of
poverty and underdevelopment in our country.
Disbelief and distrust of authorities and government institutions, generated
by this scourge, whose prestige has crossed while the country's borders and has been
confirmed by international organizations which place us among the most corrupt countries
in the world, they generated an unfavorable environment governance and investments in the past
Paraguay for decades.
It is important to consider all these consequences suffered by the people due to corruption
and impunity. And therefore run a strong and permanent struggle. The Alliance Paraguay
Alegre maintains that this is the right time to achieve a radical improvement levels
fighting corruption and begin to prevent it.
For this instance, mechanisms and specific strategies that emerge Convention will be installed
International as: The Inter-American Convention against Corruption and the Convention CICC
United Nations Convention against Corruption, which recommend the frontal fight to developing countries
They are seeking to create a new image, conducive to investment, development and good living.
Citizenship plays a decisive role in this task it must be directly involved in
campaigns to identify corruption with inequity in contravention of
fundamental for the common good and solidarity with millions of compatriots living principles
in poverty and deserve out of it.
With the implementation of these measures is expected that the State together with citizens, report and
avoid situations of corruption.
Promoting initiatives that promote public consultations, accountabilities and other
reporting mechanisms will allow us to install more effective mechanisms and tools
emphasizing the monitoring, supervision and auditing of the shares, after the
Transparency and citizen participation in all levels of government.
Last but not least will be the preparation and presentation of the Transparency Law
and Ac c that the Informat ion garantic and DEReC ho públic or Informat ion and its ac c that to her.

Government Agenda 2013-2018

National Transparency Plan synergistically address the following topics:
• frontal fight against corruption with concrete actions such as the protection of the complainant and
creating research units in all the institutions of the central government.
• Raising levels of transparency, implemented recommendations of the executive level
International conventions against corruption, preventive measures and instances of corruption
and development of an integrated network of open government to coordinate actions at the municipal level,
departmental government, and central government
• Increased citizen participation in mechanisms that control and regulate facts
violate the State, using new information and communications technology and
strengthening and open government to citizens.
For the establishment of these issues we suggest the following:
• Set the front fighting corruption, implementing measures and instances
sanctions at regional and national level, ensuring the prosecution and punishment of facts that
increase public credibility and generate an atmosphere of governance.
• Install instances and transparency measures to ensure access to information,
accountability, permanent audits in major investment programs
executive.
• Start immediately and mandatory continuing education in ethics, transparency and
integrity of public officials. It is essential to sanction Ethics Codes
each institution of the central government that have not yet have.
• Improve budget management levels, bureaucratization of processes and efficiency in
bodies of executive power.
• To promote the participation and empowerment of citizens in the fight against corruption
ensuring access to information and open government strategies.
• severely punish corruption coordinating actions with public and private organizations
national and local events to reduce corruption and severely punish them.
• Creating a decisive executive level National Authority established to undertake and
coordinate actions of a frontal fight against corruption.
• Creation of 10 research centers and fight against corruption, with bodies at the central level
and regional, acting in coordination with the Attorney General and to submit an annual report
on results in the fight against corruption.
• Draft Law of Transparency and Access to information submitted to ensure:
• The whistleblower protection
• The public right to information
• The review of the offenses in the Penal Code to increase penalties and strengthen their
the institutions responsible for the recovery of property.
Transparent government actions
• 100% of the instances of Transparency installed in executive branch agencies, as
Units UTPC Transparency and Citizen Participation (Prevention) and Research Units
acts of corruption (Punishment).
• 3,000 civil servants trained entry-level and embedded in training programs
permanent courses of ethics, transparency and integrity in public administration.
• 1000 public servants pursuing a career public service.
• Access to the public by strengthening competition from the implemented systems
Ministry of Public Administration
• Elimination of the "real power" attributed to those in power shift, for the purposes
reduce the risk that access to public service, is considered a political sinecure.

105

Government Agenda 2013-2018

For this, we will establish clear rules for access to public service, involving
several institutions, including the enforcement of preset access rules.
• Coordination of internal investigation units with the Public Ministry and the Judiciary
• Government Reform Management installation process:
• Reduce by 50% the levels of bureaucracy in the executive bodies
• 50% increase in efficiency level of priority actions in the institutions of government
• Increase levels of customer satisfaction in the care institutions of government
• Increased level of management institutions of government to 80%, in priority actions
identified.
• Annual communication awareness campaign implemented nationwide, promoting
the impediment to denounce acts of corruption and linking it as a cause of the lack of
equity and poverty in the country.
• Installation of the single facility MUDE corruption allegations, allegations which center
and routed with unique file number to the corresponding executive agency
and perform follow up on cases and verify their resolution, sanctions and amounts
returned to the state.
• Use of ICTs and social networks to socialize truthful information, permanent contact and
rapid reporting of acts of corruption, involved at national, regional and global level
open association of organizations and governments.
• Annual National Awards instances, more efficient personalities on transparency and
the fight against corruption.

106

JUDICIAL SYSTEM REFORM IN PARAGUAY
This is a central and fundamental issue for the Alliance Paraguay Alegre. And it cuts across all
Agenda topics of this government, knowing full well that a country can not generate development
social, economic, environmental development and cultural development does not operate your system
Judicial comprehensively.
No certainty that guarantees the rights of all citizens and all
social, business and political actors in the daily life of the country, there will never be
sustainable development for Paraguay.
We can never have a worthy Paraguay, Paraguay Prospero A, A and A Green Paraguay
Efficient Paraguay without the rule of Justice and Law, which must be above
everyone and everything.
Has anyone ever shown us that poverty in Paraguay is the daughter of corruption. And the
corruption is the daughter of impunity.
This has been true in the past 50 years. And is the main cause of misery Paraguay, trap,
the illegality of inequity, inefficiency, of indignity, backwardness, underdevelopment, of
insecurity, gangs and shame that we have reached.
Therefore the Government of Paraguay Alegre Alliance is committed to fight against frontally
this untenable situation, putting all the effort, the will, decision, firmness and courage
of its members to do so.
Reality is a sufficiently assessed that the judicial system is not a guarantee for
citizens, which is mainly due to the manner in which judges and prosecutors are elected.
Hence, it is absolutely essential to develop strategies that allow for the
Executive Branch and the Legislature can ensure and monitor access to the judicial system
really capable and honest people.
This objective requires specific actions as a demanding selection system which makes the
Judicial Council, as well as transparency in the method of selection of judges in
the Supreme Court.

Government Agenda 2013-2018

It is also essential that each person accessing a position in the judicial system
periodically evaluated on their abilities and performances, which requires an efficient system
control and constant and mandatory training.
The amendment to the law governing the Prosecution of Judges and make the Jury
Prosecution of Judges must be reviewed and adapted to experiences of countries that have
Success at this point. The central criterion of this discussion should be the maximum control and transparency
to avoid political interference in the selection or prosecution of magistrates and prosecutors.
Because of the importance that the environment in the quality of life of citizens and
that the attacks against it are becoming more frequent, it is urgent to review the entire system
prevention and repression of environmental crimes. There are enough possibilities to achieve
International collaboration in this area to strengthen the infrastructure and knowledge to
institutions responsible for environmental protection.
In this respect, it is also necessary to achieve greater efficiency in the supervisory bodies and reduce
corruption levels, desburocratizando people access the administrative system and
responsible for encouraging reporting cases.

107

Government Agenda 2013-2018

GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS

108

APP:

Public Private Partnership.

AFD:

Development Finance Agency.

ANDE:

National Electricity Administration.

COSIPLAN:

South American Council of Infrastructure and Planning.

CDPD:

United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with
Discapacida

CONAM:

National Environmental Council.

CICC:

American Convention against Corruption.

CODENI:

Municipal Councils for the Rights of the Child, Girls and Adolescents

CDE:

East city.

CITES:

Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and
Flora.

CONADERNA:

National Commission for Protection of Natural Resources.

DESC:

Economic, Social and Cultural Rights.

ESSAP:

Ente Sanitary Services of Paraguay.

BSE:

Basic education.

ERSSAN:

Sanitary Services Regulatory Authority.

EBY:

Yacyreta binational entity.

Armed Forces:

Armed forces.

FONACIDE:

National Development Fund and Public Investment.

GE:

Electronic Government (e-gov).

GEF:

Global Environmental Fund.

VAT:

Value added tax.

I + D + I:

Research, Development and Innovation.

INDI:

National Indigenous Institute.

INDERT:

Institute of Rural Development and Land.

IIRSA:

Regional Integration Initiative Sud Americana.

MSMEs:

Micro, small and medium enterprises.

MEC:

Ministry of Education and Culture.

MOH:

Ministry of Health and Social Welfare.

MAI:

Comprehensive Care Model

MEC:

Ministry of Education and Culture -,

MAG:



Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock

Government Agenda 2013-2018

MOPC:

Ministry of Public Works and Communications.

MJT:

Ministry of Justice and Labor.

MOVE:

One mechanism allegations of corruption.

ILO:

International Labour Organization.

PGGN:

General Budget of the Nation.

GDP:

Gross domestic product.

PEA:

Economically active population.

PAM:

Older Persons

PN-PAM:

National Plan for Older Persons.

POAT:

Plan Environmental and Land Management.

BREAD:

National Environmental Policy.

PLANHAVI:

National Plan of Habitat and Housing.

RISS:

Network Integrated Health Services.

RAC:

Desk, Reception and Classification.

SENASA:

National Environmental Sanitation Service.

SINASIP:

National System of Protected Areas.

HNS:

National Vocational Promotion Service.

SINAFOCAL:

National Training and Job Training

SEAM:

Ministry of Environment.

ICT:

Information and communication technologies.

USF:

Family Health Units.

USF:

Unit Family Health

UNESCO:

United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization.

UTPC:

Units of transparency and citizen participation.

109

Government Agenda 2013-2018

110
