r
e
g
g
We village

e
g
in
r
? Eng
018

Allia

014-2
2
t
p
e
f
in
n
a
m
nsens choice

r
e
g
g
We village

e
g
in
r
? Eng
14-2018

Allia

st 20
e
f
in
n
a
m
l
a
nsens v

Content
Party leaders preface: The Alliance's promise to voters

6

Starting points for the Alliance's policies

9

Responsibility for the economy

15

Jobs goal - over 5 million of work in 2020

19

Greater cohesion

43

An open Sweden

50

Education builds Sweden strongly

56

Quality and availability of the health care for all

68

A good, safe country in which to grow

74

A safer society

82

World leader for environmental and climate

94

A policy for the whole of Sweden

102

A society in the Community

110

A strong voice in the world

116

A stronger defense

122

Appendix Table 124

Party leaders preface:
The Alliance's commitment to
voters
The Alliance has a vision for Sweden. We want a
Sweden, which holds together, that puts people at the center. One
Sweden where anyone can work and have a job to go to.
Where those who have an idea to realize it, dare to start a business and see it grow. A Sweden where together we create
safety nets that provide support if we are misaligned, we get sick
or if we are at the moment or is no longer bothered by their own efforts.
A Sweden where everyone has the same opportunities to develop
their ability and where everyone can feel safe. Our community
built by people in the community - the family, among friends,
classmates and co-workers, and civil society at large.
Community and Trust creates meaning, participation and confidence in the future. All this is needed if we are to have a good welfare
we fund together.
We are proud of what we have accomplished. But we want more. we want
continue to build Sweden, with huge investment in infrastructure and housing. We want to create opportunities for jobs and
growth throughout the country. We want to create a world class business and we want to strengthen the workforce to more people
able to get a job. Our goal is that over five million people
to have a job to go to in 2020.
We want to continue strengthening the schools' academic achievements. All parents should feel confident that their children are treated
well, learn a lot and be equipped for adult life. We want to improve

6

We build Sweden

the quality and increase the availability of care. We want to make Sweden safer by reducing crime and by
strengthen our defense. We want our children and young people to have
a good upbringing. We want to ensure that people can age safely
and that the power to decide over their own lives is not limited
just because you get older. We want to continue to combine a growing economy with decreasing greenhouse gas emissions.
The Alliance has taken responsibility for Sweden in eight years. We have invested our way through a severe economic crisis. Today it is over
300,000 more people have a job to go to than in 2006.
People have got to keep more of their salary. It has meant greater opportunity to stand on its own and to create a good life for himself
and others. Through our choice reforms have decisions
transferred from politicians to individual people. We have increased support
for those with small financial margins. We have improved
the business environment and reintroduced knowledge line in school. Never
previously welfare had so many resources. We have made great
investments in infrastructure and research. We have expanded the
renewable energy and reduced greenhouse gas emissions. We have strengthened
Sweden's defense and we take great responsibility to give people
fleeing a new and brighter future. Equality has increased
as more women work more and have received higher pay.
We live in an era of unrest and conflict in our world. More and more people in Europe's neighborhood fleeing war,
oppression and persecution. Some of them choose to come to
our country with the hope of a better life. The Alliance stands up for
a welcoming society characterized by respect, tolerance
and transparency. The people who come to Sweden will be a
part of our community and contribute ultimately to making
Sweden a better country through jobs, businesses, various
experience and cultural diversity. Together we build
Sweden's future.

We build Sweden

7

Moderate Party, Liberal Party, Centre Party and Christian Democrats seek common voter confidence
next term. We have shown that we can take responsibility. we want
continue to build Sweden, and make our country even better. We
are clear about what we want to do and we do what we promise.

Basis for
The Alliance Policy
Alliance puts people at the center. Our policy aims to
build a society that takes advantage of each person's ability.
Where everyone gets a chance to grow and create, and which we jointly create confidence and cohesion. All needed
the construction of a better Sweden.

Fredrik Reinfeldt
Jan Björklund
Annie Lööf
Göran Hägglund

***
A policy that puts people first need to focus on
jobs. The work allowed people the opportunity to realize their dreams and achieve their goals. A job provides security and
power over everyday life, but also the community and a sense
to be needed. But more people working, we can not
secure our common welfare.
Since 2006, 300,000 more people have a job to go to.
Meanwhile, nearly 200 000 people left the exclusion under the Alliance Government of time. We want even more people to get
be part of the community that a job brings.
The Alliance has set up a jobbmål. We want to over five million
people should have a job to go to in 2020. With an ambitious
policies for entrepreneurship and innovation are the jobs become more
and benefit many. Jobs created by companies that start,
growing and hiring. It also creates the basis for more jobs
public sector.
We take responsibility for it is orderliness in the economy. The
is a prerequisite for all our policies, and to make Sweden
continue to stand strong. There are countries in our neighborhood which now bears

8

We build Sweden

We build Sweden

9

the heavy consequences of a policy that promised everything to
all. Sweden is an open and trade-dependent country. The
means that we too felt the prolonged recession in
world, but we have not been affected to the same extent as
many other. Because we had saved for a rainy day and went
the crisis with excess in the economy, we have been able to invest
in jobs during the crisis years. This has meant that jobs have become more
while we have been able to increase resources for health care,
school and other things that is our common.
Major challenges lie ahead for the next mandate. We see that the recession is continuing worldwide.
Sweden has limited help from abroad. Many
countries' heavy debt increases vulnerability to downturns in the economy or a new crisis. The conflicts in Ukraine and the Middle East causes great suffering for the population in those countries,
but also threatens to further weaken the international economy.
Sweden is and should be an open country that takes great humanitarian responsibility. Many people seek refuge with us from
war and persecution. It enriches our country both culturally and
economically.
In this environment, the environment of the Alliance Sweden forward. We will continue to strengthen our financial defenses and
work to achieve our jobbmål. We are gearing up to face a
heightened security situation. We want to make important investments in, among other things, more knowledge in school and improved and expanded
infrastructure to continue to connect our country. This requires a
responsible policies.
The Alliance stands for order and for the continued stability of public finances. It is the foundation for our work policy. About it
would be created concerns that government finances are not in order
there is a risk that companies do not dare to invest and hire.
When interest rates rise and jobs are becoming fewer. And it is jobs
which is the foundation of our whole being. Therefore, we must safeguard
10

We build Sweden

surplus target, as well as the fiscal framework in general. During the next mandate period, all reforms
financed to the payment. It will also be necessary budget consolidation, through both tax increases and
spending cuts - but we will not raise taxes
on work and business, and we will not do
savings on welfare.
The jobs will be more when more people want to work, as more businesses start and grow, and when employers venture to hire.
Without ideas, innovations and entrepreneurs stays Sweden.
With good conditions of employment and entrepreneurship
more people have a job to go to. The Alliance has made it
more profitable to run a business. We have reduced red tape for business owners and entrepreneurs. During the next term would
we continue to strengthen the conditions for entrepreneurship, research
and development so that jobs will continue to become more and our strong
real wage growth can continue.
The drivers of job and good conditions for entrepreneurship can never
replaced by labor market policy, places and programs. The Alliance has set up a jobbmål. Over five million people
to have a job to go to in 2020. When we adopted jobs goal, we noted that the goal will be reached by going gets 350,000
more. Our goal can only be achieved if the jobs become more - not
through additional early retirement and increased alienation. More
Jobs is the basis of our economy can continue to grow and
so that we can continue to have a high quality of welfare. More jobs
both women and men are also the basis for a more equal
Sweden. Without more jobs, we can not continue to invest in school
and infrastructure. For Sweden to be strongly required
continuing the policy of alliances. We want to keep Sweden at work line.
The alliance wants to kickstart Sweden Construction. It is our collective
proposal to tie together Sweden and enable
people and businesses that live and work in the country. Large
investments in new main line for high speed, reforms

We build Sweden

11

for smaller construction hassles, expanded public transport and improved
infrastructure throughout Sweden do so that our country can continue
grow. Thanks to the Alliance Government has already implemented reforms, residential construction has picked up. Sweden The building reinforces the housing construction and create conditions for a further 50 000 homes by 2020 and lays the foundation for upwards
20 000 new construction jobs each year. Thus estimated 300 000
new homes to be built by 2020. When it becomes easier to commute
or move to a new job will also labor
work better.
A good education, with a focus on knowledge and learning,
give our children a good start in life and helps to equalize
life chances. The alliance wants to further strengthen the school. We want
more order, earlier and clearer monitoring and
more support for the children and adolescents who do not reach targets as
that they have a better chance to catch up. All students should
more instructional time with their teachers. So each child
good conditions to go out into adulthood. We especially focus
the children who come to Sweden from other countries and who need to quickly learn Swedish. It is
important that the education is adapted to the needs
the labor market, both through apprenticeship schemes, vocational training and higher education of good quality.
Alliance jobbmål requires that we continue to strengthen the workforce and continue to help those who are far from the labor market to get a job. We have seen that the people who
previously hidden away in isolation now receive help and support
to come back. That work must continue. More like
today from the labor market to find jobs, through training, subsidized employment and other
active support.
If the jobs will continue to be more we must continue to be open towards the outside world. Sweden's exports amount to almost
half of our GDP. The alliance would facilitate trade, tear
12

We build Sweden

more trade barriers and strengthen the companies' export opportunities.
We also want to continue to be open to people through
labor come to Sweden to work. The
brings expertise to our country and it makes it easier for companies to recruit. We resist the forces that advocate
protectionism and reduced transparency.
***
When more people are working there will be more resources for welfare. We have never
spent more on welfare than we do today. With the Alliance has
more people have more power over their daily lives. We have shortened the queues in the health care system, strengthened freedom of choice and established a legal
values ​​in elderly care. During the next term would
we continue to ensure that people across the country face a
safe health care that keeps good quality. We want to strengthen
the conditions for people to live a rich life also
older days. Women and men should have the same conditions
and the power to shape society and their own lives. All children should
have secure childhood conditions. We will have good prospects for
Families freedom and financial security.
Sweden will be a country that holds together. All Sweden shall
grow and people to live and work throughout our
country. We want to continue improving the environment, using our natural resources in a sustainable manner, creating conditions
sustainable transport and continue to combine a growing
economy with reduced emissions. The people who come here from other countries will be able to quickly find their place
in our society, through work and language. We want to highlight areas of social exclusion and ensure that new Swedes
conditions to grow on its own. We oppose prejudice and hatred. All people should be able to feel involved
in our society, irrespective of religion, ethnicity, sexual orientation
or sex.
In Sweden, which holds the people's voluntary work
important. We want to provide favorable conditions for voluntary gemenskaVi builds Sweden

13

per that through commitment and responsibility to contribute to
social development and welfare.
People in Sweden should be able to feel safe. Society
to react against violence and abuse. Those who commit crimes
shall be punished and victims should receive help and support. The Alliance
want to increase the penalty to the seriousness of that harm others
people or property of another. We also want to strengthen
Crime prevention among young people at risk and for
those at risk to reoffend. The police should have the right conditions to work with to provide security and fight
crimes.
In a turbulent business environment, we want to invest in defense. Threshold
to attack Sweden shall be high and no country should hesitate
our ability. The alliance wants to strengthen defense during
next term.
The alliance wants Sweden to take responsibility in the world and contribute to
turning oppression into freedom and poverty to progress.
***
Sweden faces an important crossroads. The election September 14
is a referendum on jobs. The alliance is a clear
working line starting from the man. For growth, cohesion and resources for our common welfare. we want
have more knowledge in school and a Sweden Construction that provide jobs,
sustainable future investment and more homes. The Alliance
stands for high quality and safe financing of the common welfare that we all need in different phases of life. Our
policies to build bridges to self-sufficiency and provides people
freedom to grow on its own and in community with others.

14

We build Sweden

Responsibility for the economy
The Swedish economy has developed positively during the mandate period, despite the past six years been marked by the worst global recession since the 1930s. Sweden has
Growth, employment has continued to increase and we are
the only country where public debt has decreased during the crisis.
This positive development is that the Alliance Government has
pursued a policy that has consistently been focused on creating
job and to take long-term responsibility for the Treasury.
Responsibility for the state's finances are a prerequisite if we were to be able to control our future. In the over-indebted countries overshadows the need for government financial restructuring everything else. Then
suffer jobs and welfare. Thanks to our strong public finances have been Alliance government, unlike most other
countries abroad, have been able to counteract the effects of the crisis. We have
able to invest in jobs by reducing taxes on labor and
entrepreneurship, through investments in infrastructure and research, with more money for welfare. The stimulus policies that the Alliance Government has pursued, together with our
reforms to promote job training and entrepreneurship,
been instrumental in the positive developments in the labor market. In many countries in the EU have jobs become fewer. In Sweden
more than 300 000 new jobs were created.
To safeguard, and where necessary strengthen, the fiscal policy
framework and to take measures to boost economic stability creates conditions to withstand crises and to provide
long-term credibility of economic policy. During
the previous term of office, several measures have been taken partly
to strengthen the fiscal framework, partly to counter

We build Sweden

15

seem that the financial sector will be a source of financial
instability.
The Alliance stands for order in the economy and for the continued stability of public finances. It requires responsibility, the
coming years to continue to secure Sweden's strong position. It is necessary to finance the reforms to the payment. During the forthcoming period of the assessment
that there is a space to reduce taxes. The Alliance
exhibits therefore no election promises of unfinanced tax cuts.
In order to secure good defenses and the ability to protect
jobs and welfare when the next crisis will be surplus in the public finances reach 1 percent of GDP when resource
is in balance, which is expected to be in 2018. It is now lying
forecasts show that it will require budget reinforcements totaling about SEK 25 billion during the next
term. The design of fiscal policy should take account of resource utilization in the coming years remains
low. In order to protect jobs and growth, fiscal policy should therefore
not be in a direction which holds back the recovery of
economy 2014-2016. Budget reinforcements should be carried out
2017 and 2018 when the economy is expected to normalize.
If a new serious disturbance affects the Swedish economy and
economy further from balance, the budgetary strengthening measures shifted further in the future. Conversely,
budgetary reinforcements need to be brought forward if the recovery is faster.
The Alliance agrees that budget reinforcements predominantly will be through revenue increases, but
it will also be necessary to limit expenditure growth to come. An important starting point is that budget reinforcements should not affect the core welfare activities. Within health care, education and care should instead be
fully funded reforms to improve quality. It is
16

We build Sweden

also central to budgetary reinforcements have not done through
increased taxation which affects employment and the business environment.
On the revenue side, a series of measures taken. Tax levy
from the financial sector should increase. Today, the financial
sector exempt from VAT in the EU countries, which helps to taxation is lower than in other parts of the
business. A starting point should be that, in the same way
as in Denmark, leveling the tax burden by some increase in social contributions in the financial sector.
It is important to maintain the tax legitimacy. Today
taxed the commercial property sector less than other parts of the business. Tax through packaging
the properties can be countered. A commission is added. In order to
further discourage cheating should also levels of tax and customs duties have increased.
The changeover of the transport sector is an important element of that policy. Environmental governance should be strengthened by increasing the taxation of private cars and vehicles
have particularly large emissions of greenhouse gases. Additional environmental taxes, such as chemical tax and tax on fluorinated greenhouse gases, should be introduced. The nitrogen oxide charge should also be made into a tax. Additionally, the
Alliance of raising taxes on alcohol and tobacco in order to strengthen
public health.
It is important to pursue a responsible policy that limits
spending growth going forward. Employment is currently increasing strongly and the Ministry of Finance's forecasts show
an improvement of the labor market situation. Thus it is natural to adapt the level of labor market measures
later.
Measures should be taken long term reduces illness and
sick leave. It may for example include measures to
We build Sweden

17

counteract women's health and strengthen support in the fight against
mental illness.
It is also vital to maintain good cost control
in various benefit by preventing the occurrence
of fraud and overuse. The state administration should
streamlined. It should also henceforth be a limitation
of the annual appropriations increases in wage and price conversion system. In order not to discourage the strengthening happening now
of defense, this area should be excluded. Costs can
also be reduced by the local authorities' costs
and localization tried harder.

Jobs target - of 5
millions in work in 2020
Sweden built strongly, by more people in work. Our goal is that all
willing and able to work should have a job to go to. Having a
job and an income gives people power over their lives, as well as a sense of community and of being needed. When we
Many of us are working we help to create more resources for
what is common. We create conditions for a more
fair and equal society and strengthen cohesion
in our country. The labor market will accommodate even those who today
is far from getting a job. The jobs and the fight against exclusion remains the basis for Alliance policies.
When the Alliance government took was exclusion record.
Every day early retirements 140 people. The growing
exclusion contributed to income inequality increased sharply until 2006. The alliance has restored the work line.
The basic elements of the Alliance's policy for jobs and against exclusion has been a tax credit which made it more
return to work, a clear policy for increased entrepreneurial activity,
lower hiring costs, reforms of unemployment insurance and health insurance and active labor market policies. Moreover, thanks to our strong public finances, able to invest in, among other things, infrastructure, research
and education and keeping up household consumption
through the recession. We also invest more in schools,
healthcare and social services than ever before. The municipality financed employment is expected to increase by more than
30 000 people between 2006 and 2014. Employment growth in prosperity in the years ahead is expected to be strong.

18

We build Sweden

We build Sweden

19

Our policy has been successful. Compared with 2006, more
over 300 000 more people a job to go to. Exclusion has
declined by nearly 200,000 people since 2006. The percentage of young people who neither work nor study, as well as the number of sick leave and disability pension has fallen. The employment rate among foreign-born and among women has increased. We
Today highest employment rate and the highest labor force participation across the EU.
The challenges of the Swedish labor market is, however, still
big. Work for more jobs and full employment need
therefore, continue unabated. The jobs are Sweden
most important issue for the future.
The Alliance's goal is to over five million people should have
work in 2020. .When we adopted jobs goal, we noted
the goal should be achieved through increased employment by 350
000 people by 2020. With 350,000 more employed
2020, the employment rate for people aged
20 and 64 to 82 percent by 2020. The Alliance jobbmål is ambitious. To achieve the target, the job creation policy
conducted since 2006 remain unchanged and a condition is
that no new serious disturbance affects the Swedish economy.
A clear working line with the incentives to work is the basis for
a high and sustainable employment. We will maintain a continued prudent policies and a broad combination of reforms. Conditions for entrepreneurship and enterprise needs improvement
for jobs to be more because there are companies - especially small and medium-sized businesses - that the new jobs
created. Places in the various employment measures, are important
complement, but can not form the core of a policy of more
job. However, further efforts and lowering thresholds
entering the labor market for persons who today are far from
the labor market, such as young, foreign-born persons and persons
with disabilities.
20

We build Sweden

Jobs goal will guide the Alliance's reform policy in the face
upcoming term and 2020.

PROTECT WORKING LINE AND
DRIVERS FOR THE JOB
When it pays to work becomes more jobs and growth conditions improved. It is important that the budget improvements implemented not occur by increasing taxation
hitting employment and business. That tax
benefit schemes provide incentives to enter the job is crucial to push back their alienation and achieve full employment.
The most important measure for more jobs is the tax credit.
Many countries use variations of the earned income tax credit, and
the effects are well documented in research. The steps
included in the tax credit is expected to generate 120,000 jobs.
The earned income tax has also been an important tool to
prop up the economy during the crisis.
Earned income tax credit gives the most to those with small and ordinary
incomes. Here are the incentives to work also greatest importance for employment. A common LO family has received 4000
SEK more a month thanks to the tax credit. The earned income tax continues to support job growth over the years
forward.
"" We will not reduce the tax credit.

We build Sweden

21

SWEDEN BUILDING FOR JOBS AND
GROWTH, INFRASTRUCTURE AND
HOUSING
Sweden is linked by roads and railways. Functioning communications are essential for jobs and sustainable growth
throughout the country. The Alliance wants to do historic and long-term
investments in rail and road, public transport system and
reduced hassle building under construction Sweden. By
Sweden The building we are taking a comprehensive approach to infrastructure and
housing and connects our country. Sweden Construction
contribute to the build 300,000 new homes up to the
by 2020.
The Alliance Government has doubled the funding for the operation and maintenance of the railway since 2006. During the years 2014-2025 bet
we have a total of 522 billion on infrastructure. It allows
maintenance and major investments in existing infrastructure, as well as new initiatives to improve the opportunities for both commuters and freight transport. We are implementing important enhancements including mining and other industries
which is dependent on transport. The allocation to private roads
has been increased substantially. Throughout Sweden currently ongoing
road and rail projects to improve accessibility
and transport facilities. Efficient transportation means
also reduced environmental impact and reduced emissions.

set to create opportunities for more housing, and rail and road investments in the metropolitan regions and other
regions affected by the agreements between the State,
municipalities and regions.
"" We want to build new trunk lines for high-speed
on the routes between Stockholm-Gothenburg and Stockholm-Malmö.
"" We want to examine the possibility of building another
a fixed link between Sweden and Denmark.
"" We want to examine the possibility of expanding the railway line in northern Sweden with a strong element of co-financing from industry, municipalities and regions.
"" We want to invest in public transport and other infrastructure
in Stockholm, Gothenburg and Skåne to boost housing construction. We want to follow up on the Stockholm agreement on extended metros and more housing
by negotiating additional metro lines
and other rail traffic. Stockholm bypass will
built. We also want to examine the conditions for a financial solution of an eastern connection that ties
combined highway junction around Stockholm and
that does not encroach on the National City Park.

New trunk lines represents a historic commitment to sustainable travel that greatly increase rail capacity and is beneficial
for the whole of Sweden. The initiative will promote increased rail and can thereby contribute to lower carbon emissions
from traffic. The existing rail system can be further used for freight and regional commuter traffic.
More jobs when it becomes easier to move and to commute.
Journey times between Stockholm and Malmö and Stockholm-Gothenburg will be shortened considerably. Overall created
a more robust network. A hearing person has access

Businesses should be able to operate throughout Sweden. They should be able to find
the right skills and transport their goods and products.
Bromma Airport traffic Angelholm / Helsingborg, Degerfors, Göteborg, Halmstad, Kalmar, Kristianstad, Malmö, Östersund Ronneby, Sundsvall, Trollhättan, Umeå, Växjö
Visby. The tax must be designed in a way that
is hitting rural areas.

22

We build Sweden

We build Sweden

23

"" We will not introduce a kilometer, which
would particularly affect rural businesses.
"" We want to allow a higher weight on trucks to thus
improving opportunities for the forestry and mining industries to
transport their goods.
"" We will not put down Bromma airport.
To reduce the residential housing must increase.
It must move faster to put the shovel in the ground and the availability of land where you can build must increase. The Alliance Government has implemented a series of measures to simplify the
rules that put obstacles in the way of construction. Among other
municipalities can make demands in the detailed curtailed. Thanks to these measures, we now see that housing construction is increasing and during the coming year, 40 000
new homes will begin. With the construction of the pace gets
we have 250,000 new homes by 2020. But it is not enough. Because
took the Alliance Government's initiative to Stockholm hearing,
which resulted in the agreement on extended metros and 78 000
new homes by 2030
The Alliance wants to continue to work to remove barriers, including
through further simplification of rules and shorter handling times. In this way, and by coordinating investments in infrastructure and housing, allowing bets
in Sweden The building that is being built at least another 150 000
new homes across the country by the year 2035th
Construction Sweden and Stockholm The hearing will have positive effects on the housing already in a few years, which
estimated to result in 50,000 new homes by 2020. Sweden The construction thus creates the conditions for 300,000 new homes
2020.
24

We build Sweden

Our future investments extends until 2035
and contributes to the target of 5 million jobs by 2020. We examine the conditions for creating a regional planning level
for residential construction to prevent municipalities ignore
the regional needs in their planning. Municipalities should also
help to reduce construction costs, eg through reduced parking standards.
Alliance Government changed the shoreline rules 2009 and
2010. The aim was to promote development in rural areas with good access to beaches, but also to increase local and regional influence. The rules have not been
the impact that was intended. Therefore, the Alliance Government has developed new legislation gives the possibility to suspend the shoreline protection at the small lakes and rivers. We now want to go
further to improve the conditions for the construction and
accommodation in beachfront locations.
"" We want to examine measures in order to shorten the process to
construction starts with up to one year.
"" We want to introduce new and shorter deadlines for municipalities and county administrative boards handling.
"" We want to increase the supply of building land done through more
flexible noise regulations.
"" We want to reduce construction costs through better utilization of economies of scale.
"" We want to speed up the construction process, by changing
opportunities to appeal the construction decision, a private initiative, the possibility of comparisons between municipalities and
reduced the mandatory requirement for detailed planning. We also want to
more detailed plans to be adopted by the Planning Committee or the municipal government. We want to see the addition of limited duration

We build Sweden

25

said detailed provisions on buildings' appearance design.
"" We want a building permit freeing further action in order to facilitate for the individual property owner.
"" We want the application fee for a building permit to be reduced if the municipalities do not keep the deadline for the proceedings.
"" We want the need for more housing will be a major
priority in the design of policies for national interests.
"" We want to make changes in cultural requirements and regulations for archaeological investigations in order to facilitate
for construction.
"" We want housing, in addition to environmental benefits,
should govern the priority areas for soil remediation.
"" We want the shore protection is more appropriate in
throughout the country in order to improve conditions for
construction and housing in beach locations, as well as the agricultural sector and for other business activities. For example, conditions for increasing the exemption possibilities in rural development in beachfront
Modes reviewed. In the most exploited areas
should shore protection remain strong.
The shortage of student housing can in some cases make the students
forced to accept an educational place. Alliance Government
now carrying out extensive simplification for student apartments
and the smaller apartments up to 35 sqm. It will make it
easier and cheaper to build smaller apartments. Apart
these simplification rules that apply equally to those boendefor-

26

We build Sweden

more so will the student apartments will have greater opportunities
in a departure from the noise rules. It has also become easier and
more profitable to rent or sublet or to rent out a room
in their own homes. But still it is too difficult to
find a student residence. No student should have to forgo
his study due to lack of housing. The alliance has therefore
set a target of 20 000 new student housing 2020. The housing for students is greatest in Stockholm. We want
work to build a new subway station in the campus of the Royal Institute of Technology and Stockholm
University begins during the term.
"" We want to appoint a student negotiators to enable a large number of student housing being built quickly.
"" We want to investigate further adjustments to the accessibility requirements and try other relaxation of building regulations for student housing.
"" We want, in addition to the simplification measures already implemented,
investigate its own housing for young people with limited
stay where the aim is to increase the supply of apartments
are affordable for young people. In the same way as in student accommodation will be in these apartments greater departure from the noise regulations can be made. Additional regulatory reform in
order to be able to build smaller and more flexible apartments is also being investigated.
"" We want the Academic houses will contribute to more student housing in that it is made clear that the company's focus
includes construction and management of student housing.
"" We want to give the institutions a permanent opportunity to convey housing.

We build Sweden

27

A world class
Jobs created by companies that are growing and hiring. More jobs in
growing companies mean increased tax revenues, which in turn
funding our common welfare.
It is through openness and trade we build our prosperity.
At the same time challenged businesses and jobs in Sweden constantly by entrepreneurs and innovations from around the world. To be able to
compete in the global market we need to improve
conditions for enterprise and entrepreneurship. An ambitious policy for employment, entrepreneurship and innovation
is a precondition to achieve job goal.
Since Alliance government took office, corporate tax and social charges were reduced and the economic drivers for
run businesses have improved. The regulatory burden has been reduced by 7
billion, including through abolished mandatory auditing
and simplified accounting. It has been possible to
run companies in more areas, especially in industries
dominated by women. There are now 200,000 more firms than when the Alliance government took office.
Sweden ranks high in international comparisons regarding the business environment, but we can still get better. Among
others are taxes on business higher than in many other
comparable countries. Many companies feel that regulations
remains complicated, and much time is spent on administration. There may be both a competitive problem that a
the threshold for companies to start or grow.
It is location to create long-term conditions
a more innovative and creative Swedish industry. In order to
strengthening the business climate, encourage entrepreneurship and innovation, facilitate the provision of skills and improve
opportunities for entrepreneurs, the government has taken the initiative
a broad review of the conditions to start, operate, develop and own businesses in Sweden. We want to continue to reduce kost28

We build Sweden

costs and ease the regulatory burden. Alliance Government has also
added a number of specific investigations in order to improve the business climate.
Family-owned and owner-managed businesses contribute to sustainability.
Many times they offer a commitment to the city, or
areas and therefore provide great value in addition to the jobs they create. We aim to improve the conditions for generational change so that the person selling his company to his children
not disadvantaged.
Sometimes it is difficult for entrepreneurs in the early stages of attracting the necessary skills. In many other countries solve
this problem through various incentive schemes where people
with key 'skills receive stock options, ie, the right to buy shares
in the company of one of the predetermined price. To create more
owned companies and allowing more companies to attract the right
skills, we want to see how the regulatory framework for employee stock options can be improved.
Today, the smallest firms exempted from the audit requirement. IN
connection with the evaluation that must take place, we want to try
prospects for more companies will be exempted from
the audit duty.
We will also launch a study on the tax företrädaransvaret in order to improve standards, increase predictability and reduce the risks of viable businesses
liquidated.
"" We want to strengthen the business environment and aims to
improving the regulatory framework for employee stock options and generational shifts and examine the possibility of more
Companies should avoid audit duty.
"" We want more than halve the time it takes to start a business in Sweden.
We build Sweden

29

"" We want to reduce the share capital requirement to lower the threshold for starting companies.

people who are far from the labor market to get a
job.

"" We want to create a digital service "one stop shop" for corporate disclosure and thereby simplify the company's contacts with the public and limit the number of
government contacts.

"" We want to reduce the cost of sick pay through a new cost ceiling which is particularly beneficial for small and medium-sized businesses.

"" We want to give the Tax Agency to measure and map the time businesses spend on tax administration and to
propose measures to reduce the tax administration.
"" We want to raise the threshold for simplified invoice for
to facilitate companies' management of VAT.
"" We want to strengthen the companies' strategic business management
of intangible assets through continued assignment to
Patent Office and Vinnova.
"" We want to require that all agencies and municipalities need a clear time limit for processing times.
"" We want to be more viable companies with payment difficulties should have the opportunity for a second chance. We therefore want
A review of the law on reorganization.
"" We want to reduce processing times for civil cases.
"" We want to streamline the dispute resolution mechanisms through revision of the law of arbitration.
A majority of the jobs created today in small businesses. For
small businesses is the cost when employees are sick especially
burdensome. With a cost ceiling which already features
for the first few days when employees are sick, we reduce
the risk for small businesses to hire new employees and make it easier for

30

We build Sweden

BROADER WAYS TO JOB
By that jobs reach everyone in society we cherish permanently
cohesion. To all who can and want to work should
able to get a job, a more inclusive labor market.
As a result of the Alliance Government reform today's
a range of incentives for employers to hire the accounting
further away from the labor market. This policy must be continued.
During the next mandate further work is needed to
widen roads to jobs, a policy for more jobs, in combination with further assistance to the most excluded
to establish themselves in the labor market.
We would like to introduce so-called matching positions, in order to
helping people who have been unemployed for a long time into the labor market. The job gets a job with
a recruitment and support through a combination of
coaching and skills development. Recruitment has employer responsibility but should also actively promote
for job seekers obtain employment with another employer.
"" We want to introduce matching employment as a complement
employment phase in the job and development guarantee.

We build Sweden

31

We have begun a broad review of the Employment Service to
improving matching and job seeking. The investigator
Amongst other things, the Employment Service organization, responsibilities and the use of complementary players.
Employment Service and other actors to convey jobs needs to be improved. We want to streamline inter and sharpen
support systems to make them easier to use for both employers and employment agencies.
The support to those who are far from the labor market needs
strengthened through the early and developed rehabilitation efforts.
This applies particularly to people with mental illness. We care
and to develop the means available for people with different
disabilities and want to further facilitate for young people with special needs to get the job.
Health insurance should provide security for the sick. The restoration of the work line has helped to make it sustainable and
consistent with the goal that all who want and can work should have
a job. We now see how, above all the shorter sick leave is increasing, and this trend needs to be met.
"" We want to increase access to conversion by people with unemployment insurance to participate in shorter training
with retained remuneration.

"" We want to give Samhall able to provide temporary employment to give young people in particular support to
become employees of another employer, without reducing the job security of those who are now employed at Samhall.
"" We want to give young people without basic qualifications for higher education or school diploma and who have a disability reducing their work
the opportunity to participate in the incentive to study courses at the college for up to five months.
"" We want to make it possible for people who switch from
Job and development guarantee to regular studies,
order to fulfill the basic and / or secondary education to
After completing their studies reenter the job and development guarantee, at the same compensation for activity support as before.

"" We want to extend the probationary period from 6 to 12 months

"" We would like more people deemed to be at high risk of becoming long-term unemployed should be able to get the program interventions early in
Employment Service, for example, internships and enhanced placement assistance.

"" We want to bring the employment service resources to combat long-term unemployment and reinforced matching
with increased employer contacts.

"" We want to set aside funds for an expanded research effort to develop and disseminate new and better treatments for people with mental illness.

"" We want to implement the regulatory reform in the labor market policy framework in order to streamline and
term cost reduction.

32

"" We want to provide professional induction support for persons
have been unemployed for a long time, which means that an employer receives financial support for hiring long-term unemployed, ie introducing integration into employment of
long-term unemployed.

We build Sweden

The question of a general unemployment insurance are being investigated by the
Parliamentary Social Committee. When the Committee
presents its proposal, will the Alliance to respond to it.
We build Sweden

33

AN EQUAL WORK
Equality between women and men should be a given. The goal is that women and men have the same opportunities and power to shape society and their own lives. Work
is a cornerstone of an equal society. The earned income tax credit that benefits women more than men, the RUT deduction and by record-equality initiatives at almost 2.6 billion since 2006, we have in the Alliance Government
Time achieved tangible results for gender equality. Sweden has
highest female labor force participation in the EU, and never
before has such a large proportion of women worked full time. Equality benefit from a policy that safeguards jobs and
strengthening the incentives to work. We want to safeguard the reforms Alliance government implemented and providing more women
the opportunity to start their own business or work in better conditions. Without
RUT deduction relegated many back to black job without
social safety nets. It pays to educate themselves, acquire further training
and develop the profession in the public sector. The Alliance Government has introduced better career opportunities and wages in one of the most female-dominated professions, the teaching profession. Women in the public sector are working to a greater extent than
male involuntary part. Local governments should offer
those who want to work full time. Shared tours in healthcare should
avoided.
"" We will maintain the RUT deduction.
Women continues to take greater responsibility for unpaid housework and children with higher withdrawal of parental and VAB-days. Women have been overrepresented among those on sick leave and early retirement of almost 30
year and also leave the labor market earlier than men. All this
contributes to inequality - in everyday life and in your wallet.

34

We build Sweden

"" We want equality bonus for parents
parts evenly on parental leave strengthened.
"" We want to develop a tool that employers can use to identify whether and how women and men
exposed to different degrees of workplace risk factors
for sick leave.
"" We want the Swedish Work Environment Authority will continue to work to
prevent women are forced to leave the labor market prematurely
due to work-related problems.
One consequence of the fact that women on average have lower lifetime earnings than men is that women often receive lower pensions than men.
It is a consequence of the fact that women on average are paid less than
men and differences in working hours, which in turn often depends on a
unequal distribution of work in the home. Women on maternity leave longer than men and more often work part time in order to
combine work with caring for children and the home. Not least
after divorce or if the spouse dies, a woman
lower pensions lead to low economic standard.
Meanwhile, the Swedish pension system
probably contributed to not only increase opportunities for women
own supplies but also increased women's labor force participation overall. That in turn has increased both gender equality and
economic growth in Sweden.
"" We want to investigate whether, in the context of the pension agreement, is to change the pension system
so that more of the accrued pension, or part of
it divided equally between the spouses, if they are not actively request
something else. Any changes must be made to
the total pension for women and men is not påverVi builds Sweden

35

kas unreasonably or that women's labor market participation is negatively affected.
Women should to a greater extent than today influence society. This is particularly true in business. Alliance Government
has gone ahead and increased the proportion of women on the boards of state companies so that the proportion of women in state-owned companies
today is 50 percent. The proportion of female chairs of
the state-owned companies has increased from 23 percent in 2006
41 per cent today. It has, today more women with experience in such positions. Likewise needs distribution
between men and women in the municipal and county-owned
companies to be significantly better. The Alliance welcomes the work
the industry has made to achieve a better gender balance in
boards and management, but more needs to be done.

MORE JOBS FOR YOUNG
The first job is the most important job. We have managed to curb youth unemployment, while it has increased more than twice as much in other EU countries. Sweden is one of the countries in the EU
where the proportion of young people who neither work nor study has
declined the most since 2006. This is the effect of an offensive
policies to create jobs for young people. Halving of VAT for restaurants
and impaired social fee for young brings nearly 20 000 young
job.
At the same time we have remaining challenges. The costs of
to employ young and strong employment protection leads to
Young people have a weaker position compared with the established
workforce. Those hardest hit are young people who do not have
a graduation. To reduce the costs and uncertainties of hiring young people with limited experience
reduces employer risk. The reduction of the social charge, apprenticeships and yrkesintroduktionsanställning36

We build Sweden

s going to be important tools in this work and lowers
thresholds into the labor market. The alliance wants the apprenticeship developed further with a view to creating an apprenticeship system on the European model, where employers take a
greater responsibility for vocational training.
"" We want to lower social charges more for young people
under 23 years down to 10.21 per cent and scrap reduction for persons over 25 years. This increases
the efficiency of the reduction.
"" We want to increase the responsibility of employers for apprenticeships so that they can better adapt to labor market needs. A first step is to conduct a
pilot projects on secondary apprenticeship
which industries and employers have greater influence and
responsibility, so-called industry apprentices.
"" We want to introduce job training and enhanced job training
as initiatives under the job guarantee for young people.
"" We want to raise the apprentice compensation in order to further
increase apprenticeship attractiveness. In cases where the apprentice is an apprentice employment shall verify that the remuneration should go to the employer.
"" We want more young people to complete their high school education and would like to extend the opportunity for young people to
get the higher the premium, the study agent.
Young people who want to start their own business should be encouraged. In this way, the
create jobs both for themselves and for others.
"" We want the unemployed under 20 years old should be able to obtain start-up funding.
We build Sweden

37

"" We want to increase and permanent support to those working to promote entrepreneurship in schools, college
and the polytechnic by Young Enterprise and
Conservatory. This will promote new entrepreneurship among
Swedish pupils and students.

to improve opportunities for skills development during
working life through, among other things, changes in the student aid system. It is also important to strengthen the adaptability
through a well-functioning education system.

"" We want Drivhuset activities also cover
the students of the Polytechnic.

"" We want to safeguard the pension agreement between the Moderate Party, the Liberal Party, the Centre Party,
The Christian Democrats and the Social Democrats. Any change related to this agreement must be in
consensus between the parties which concluded the agreement.

STRENGTHENING THE FOUNDATIONS
TO WORK LONGER
As people are living longer, for many
natural to work at higher ages, both to pay it
provides that in order to thrive in the workplace, and to be
know that you can continue to make a valuable contribution. More
the elderly remain in the labor market also contributes to higher growth and to finance welfare. The labor market needs to be adapted to give more people the opportunity to stay on
work a little longer.
Since 2006 is 90 000 more people over 65 who are working .. To more elderly choose to work is the result of an active
policy. It has become cheaper to employ people over 65
and the enhanced tax credit for the elderly has increased incentives to work longer.
The ability to work longer should include as many as possible. Strengthen incentives to work at higher ages, an adapted work environment and an efficient labor market policies, strengthen opportunities for a longer working. In
Pension Group discussions are under way, inter alia, refers to
allow more people to work longer. To cope
Working longer need to also make it easier to switch careers center
in life. Alliansegeringen has presented several proposals designed to
38

We build Sweden

"" We want, in the framework of the pension agreement,
increase the incentives for longer working lives, including by
look across borders for the collection of income-based public
pension, the earliest withdrawal of the guarantee pension and maintenance support for elderly and for retirement based on deductible fee.
"" We want the right to remain in employment shall apply to the
69 years instead of, as at present, to 67 years.

STRENGTHENING RESEARCH AND INNOVATION
To increase knowledge and
COMPETITIVENESS
Sweden is among the most innovative countries and is among
those who invest the most in research and development. Until
2016, the Alliance have increased resources for research
to 9 billion more invested each year in comparison with 2008. The number of international patent applications from Sweden increased
sharply.

We build Sweden

39

A number of reform measures have been implemented aiming
to create better conditions for the utilization of research-based knowledge. Miljardsatsningar on infrastructure for research and high-tech industry by, among other things Max
IV in Lund and SciLifeLab in Stockholm.
The construction of the ESS facility in Lund has begun.

It will be of great importance to Swedish
and European research and development in the high-tech industry. The alliance will make further
efforts to Swedish research to be able to be in the international forefront. In particular, efforts need to be done
to improve opportunities for young researchers.
"" We want the next legislative period present a research proposal that will further strengthen Swedish research quality.
"" We want to invest SEK 800 million over ten years for more research and more places in
production and logistics in Södertälje with
AstraZeneca and Scania.
"" We want the next Parliament to adopt a strategy
Life-Science, and continue to increase aid to Swedish
Research in this area, both through resources and
through a clear government commitment.

SECURITY OF ENERGY
IS IMPORTANT FOR JOBS
Swedish businesses and consumers to have confidence that the
A secure supply of electricity. Long-term rules and stable conditions in the electricity market is of great importance for Swedish jobs and
Swedish competitiveness. Alliance energy agreement
remains. It creates long-term perspective on the direction and gives
energy security with good competitiveness and environmental sustainability. Thanks to hydropower, nuclear power and investing in renewable energy, Sweden has today a safe, effective
electricity generation with low emissions of greenhouse gases. Since 2006,
the share of renewable energy increased by over 8 percentage points
and we are the European country with the highest proportion of renewable energy.
We see now how electricity-intensive service industry, for example,
server rooms, to benefit from better tax conditions in
the context of continued favorable conditions for basic industry.
"" We stand by the Alliance's energy agreement,
giving consumers and industrial energy security, environmental sustainability and competitiveness.
"" We want to ensure the long-term rules of energy policy by expanding renewable energy production, phasing out fossil fuels and provide a controlled generational shift in Swedish
nuclear power.

"" We want to analyze the need for a patent pool related to the Patent Office to streamline the licensing of patents.

STATE COMPANIES
Alliance believes that the role of the State should normally be entering
the framework and the rules that apply to the industry and business, not to own and operate businesses. The state is, however, a large business owner, and will remain so for the foreseeable future.
40

We build Sweden

We build Sweden

41

This places high demands on clear principles. State companies
should be driven long-term, responsible and where the company operates
in a competitive market, according to market
requirements to ensure effective competition. The role of government
as lawmakers and owners should be kept separate and managed in
professional manner.
State companies should be characterized by transparency and example set and be a pioneer of sustainability issues
such as gender, environment and social responsibility.
Some state companies have a special social mandate. It is
important these clearly reported and govern companies'
business.
The Alliance intends during the coming mandate to continue
develop the management of state-owned companies. If the change of state ownership leads to the better functioning
markets or a more efficient public services, the state should
reduce or liquidate their holdings. For example, this
company SBAB and TeliaSonera. Any sales revenue will be used to reduce government debt. However, it is
not up to date with the sale of LKAB, Apoteket or Vattenfall's Nordic operations. Detailed monopoly for alcohol to be
protected and Systembolaget retained in state ownership.

Greater cohesion
The Alliance works for a Sweden which holds together. All
people should have room to grow and strive to realize their dreams. All people should have the same opportunity to realize their potential.
A main task for policy is to create conditions for
self-sufficient and to support those who are at risk for. This is done through education and jobs, but also through
that together we carry them that are not for the moment or not
longer cope on their own.
The restoration of the work line, the fight against exclusion
and a distribution policy that focuses on the economic
most vulnerable households have been successful and Sweden is one of
the world's most cohesive countries. From the years the Alliance government took office, the percentage of economically disadvantaged households
declined by about 30 percent. The proportion of alienation today
lower than in 2006. The continuation of a policy that opens the labor market for more and targeted assistance to those most in need is crucial.

A NEW DIMENSION IN DEVELOPMENT
GDP measure and other economic measures are absolutely central to
to follow developments and frameworks for what is economically
possible. A measure such as GDP excludes, however, factors which according to research is crucial for our well-being, such as
relations, security, health, habitat, and influence. By
indicators and indices that provide a better understanding of human life, the opportunities to analyze how poli42

We build Sweden

We build Sweden

43

policy measures can influence. The difference between the different groups
quality of life can be better and the quality of life index
can also contribute to the more subtle aspects of social life than the material not be neglected. Alliance Government
has appointed a commission to identify, analyze and propose additional dimension to GDP. Such measure will come into
practical use during the next term. Similar initiatives have been taken by OECD, UN, World Bank and European Union. Future Commission also highlighted these issues.
"" We want to develop a quality of life index to broader monitoring of developments in Sweden.

Intensified action is the economically
Most vulnerable households
Certain groups are at a greater risk of economic vulnerability. This applies to young people who come in
job, people who fled to Sweden and not fully come
in the community or families with a single parent. Therefore a jobs policy and an active distribution policy
support. The Alliance Government has improved the standard of living
for these groups, for example, raised the family supplement, elevated
Housing allowance for families with children and young people without children, and height
basic level of parental benefit. During the next term
we want to continue to support people to get the job. We will also continuously assess the need to make reinforcements
of households with the lowest margins.
Among the economically and socially most vulnerable are also the
homeless. The Alliance has worked purposefully to strengthen
knowledge and aid efforts for homeless people and those who
are at risk of homelessness. Among other things, a homelessness coordinator worked to promote more active work
44

We build Sweden

and disseminating good practice on homelessness in the municipalities. One conclusion from the work is that all municipalities in which it
is homelessness should work on model "Housing First".
The method assumes that see home as a basic
needs for all, whatever problems the person wrestling
with. Based on this, offered to the person voluntary and individual
Custom support measures. The Alliance will continue to work
homelessness. Not least evictions of families with children
be prevented as far as possible.

Enhanced action
IN VULNERABLE AREAS
In locations around our cities, we see a concentrated exclusion with far too few works, where too many are dependent
livelihood support and where school results are weak. These
fields marked often by insecurity.
Alliance Government efforts against exclusion, with jobs and
training center, is the only way to break the trend in these areas. The school will provide all students, regardless of where
they live and regardless of social and economic conditions, as
access to a quality education. To give today's young
opportunity to escape a long-term exclusion creates
also better prospects for future generations. The Alliance
want a Sweden where exclusion can not be inherited.
"" We want to double the salary supplement for the first teaching position in
exclusion areas (15 urban areas) to 10,000
per month.
"" We will earmark additional career opportunities for excluded areas, enabling a doubling of
the number of first teachers.

We build Sweden

45

To create attractive living and living environments in all parts
of the cities needed housing of all types. It also increases
mobility and opportunities to find a home that fits
their life situation. Lifting the exclusion areas
new housing and improved communications will be a
Some of the work in construction investments in Sweden.
"" We want to outsource authorities and thereby create
more jobs and increase areas' status.

further strengthening the skills of staff in the
social child and youth care. For children and young people
who need help quickly get support, needed proper coordination between different actors. Schools, social services, police
and child and adolescent psychiatry is a shared responsibility.
Even non-profit organizations have an important role and is complementary to support municipalities and various authorities give.
"" We want to appoint a national coordinator for the social
child and youth care. The coordinator will support
social services by inter alia disseminating good practice.

STRONGER PROTECTION FOR VULNERABLE CHILDREN
All children have the right to a safe childhood. For most children
our country represents parents and family security in existence.
Alliance Government has developed a national strategy for parenting support with the aim of using parents promote child health and
positive development and maximizing the child's protection against illness
and social problems. But there are also parents who do not
are able to exercise their parental responsibility, or who require more intensive support in their parenting.
When care is failing and the family network is not enough
the municipal Social ultimate responsibility to see
to children in distress get such a safe upbringing as possible.
The Alliance Government has undertaken several major reforms
to strengthen support and protection for children in distress. This
work must continue and be imbued with a child rights perspective in accordance with the CRC.
Swedish Social Services and its employees perform a more important and more difficult work than they sometimes receive recognition. That
further strengthen the profession's status, competence and
authority in this work is therefore a major political task. Through support and guidance and opportunities for specialist and
46

We build Sweden

The social services should be based on voluntary, but once a
Children suspected fare badly and the parents do not want to receive the aid,
needed more opportunities. When it comes to violence against children, further efforts should be made to prevent, detect and prevent children exposed to violence. Public responsibility is especially
great for children who have been placed outside of their own family. The
is the state position that stability and continuity can be ensured
for children placed. Custody Transfer and ability to
Adoption should be considered when the position lasted a certain time.
In all social actions concerning children, the child should have the right
to express his opinion and it should be part of the decision basis. Further reforms are needed to ensure that
foster homes and homes for the care and accommodation of the highest possible quality.
"" We want to establish a knowledge center for knowledge
violence and other abuses against children.
"" We want social services more frequently should raise the issue of
whether foster children should be subject to
custody transfer or adoption.
We build Sweden

47

"" We want to conduct a review in order to strengthen protection against
visitation interference.

BET AGAINST CHILDREN AND
YOUTH MENTAL ILLNESS
Increasing numbers of 15 year olds suffer from depression and sleep problems. Worry and anxiety are common among girls and young
women. The alliance wants to conduct a broad investigation and
efforts to identify and examine the causes of the
Deteriorating mental health and make suggestions for action. We want to develop an action plan including preventive measures.
Waiting times for child and adolescent psychiatry (CAP) is
generally relatively short. For this, among other things, agreements with SKL and performance-based funding
contributed. The focus going forward should be to increase access to prevention and the so-called first line
(primary health, school health, youth services). Normal
and more concerted efforts are needed. Parents, social services,
school / student health, child psychiatry and other medical needs to cooperate
better. The objective is coherent prevention as the actors involved in the child's everyday participate in and contribute to.

area. There is also a demand among parents about
To be able to talk and consult with someone about parenting
and child development. Parent Application have been found
have good efficacy and availability of parenting support needs to increase.
"" We want to invest a total of one billion between 2016-2018
to prevent and reduce mental illness among children
and young. This initiative will help to increase knowledge about children's and young people's mental health, increase
availability of support and care, and increase collaboration
between schools, health and social services when it comes
children and young people with mental illness.
"" We want to introduce a requirement for municipalities to offer parents the participation of at least one parent support programs during the child's upbringing.

Parents play a big role in their lives and may be in need of support in their important role. Alliance Government PRIO projects
pointing to the parent as a method which has good evidence.
Much of today's parent efforts focus on the
small children and expectant parents. This is good because
research speaks to the benefit of early intervention. At the same time, we see
increasing problems with mental health and anxiety among our teenagers. There is good potential to build on
the experience made by the national strategy on
48

We build Sweden

We build Sweden

49

An open Sweden
We live in troubled times, where people are forced to flee for their
life from war and oppression. Not since the Second World War,
so many people have been displaced. By militant Islamists in Iraq and from Syria in raging civil war. Many
people choose to apply to our country. Alliance Government
has, together with the Green Party, has chosen a different path than the
like many other European countries have chosen. Instead of
stop ourselves from the outside world, we have said that Sweden will pursue a
humane asylum policy and be a haven for those fleeing
persecution and oppression. We have shown that it is possible to put medmänskligheten first and to open the door
those who need protection.
The alliance thinks that Sweden will continue to be a country
take responsibility for the world's most vulnerable. There are Sweden and
other European countries the opportunity to, in spite of economic downturns
and other domestic challenges. The Alliance sees Swedish
refugee reception as a moral obligation, but also
as an investment in the future. We believe that more
legal ways to enter the EU. Sweden takes a great responsibility in European refugee reception and we believe that more EU countries
must take greater responsibility. Unfortunately, the enforcement of EU
common migration policy too weak in many countries,
which affects asylum seekers. The Alliance will work
EU asylum policies are implemented better and more European
Countries should take responsibility.
"" We want the countries that violate the EU common asylum procedure will be taken to court by the Commission.
50

We build Sweden

What we see in our world requires a great commitment and effort collecting well of us. Sweden may be a humanitarian superpower by offering people a refuge from violence and
persecutions. This is nothing new. Sweden has been a sanctuary for
people who fled, eg during the war in the Balkans, and they are
today a part of society and work and contribute to our common welfare. Similarly, the coming to
Sweden today, knowledge and experience are valuable
for us. We are prepared to provide the people
will today the opportunity to contribute their work and entrepreneurship. Long-term this strengthens Sweden.
In the coming years will be needed additional resources in view of the increasing refugee reception. The resource requirement arises only in the actual receipt, ie mainly for the Swedish Migration Board. Then the needed resources
establishment in the municipalities and the Employment Service.
Large parts of the additional resources are made through the standard compensation paid to municipalities receiving people
granted a residence permit and the establishment of remuneration paid to the individual. Alliance Government is investing
Moreover, further integration efforts.
The alliance will ensure that the state assumes financial responsibility for the increase in refugee reception. Relevant authorities must be given resources. Already this year, needed supplements
and these may need to be further strengthened after
hand.
The Alliance's establishment reform has facilitated the establishment of immigrants in the labor market. Considerable efforts have been made
to improve and speed up the asylum process. More
need to be made in various ways to streamline the process
further and to shorten the time it takes for the individual
to establish themselves in the labor market. Many people with
residence permits granted today will be left in the Migration Board
plant lodging since there are no places for municipal investment, thus delaying the establishment of the community. This is based nevi Sweden

51

gativt for the individual and creating financial losses for
Society.

created in Sweden. Employers have the whole world as a recruitment area.

"" We want to consider how planning conditions for
municipalities receiving asylum seekers can be improved.

"" We want to develop efforts to attract foreign
skills by shortening the time-to
hiring foreign labor.

"" We want to try out measures to achieve a more balanced reception
of newcomers among the country's municipalities, while
link to the labor safeguarded. More municipalities must take responsibility.
"" We want to give the Swedish Migration Board the opportunity to drive the accommodation facility in-house.
"" We want to revise and simplify the system for State compensation to municipalities for the costs of asylum seekers
and host of newcomers to increase the system's efficiency and transparency.
"" We want to improve the whole chain from receipt to enter the labor market. An inquiry should be appointed with the aim of ensuring a sustainable and flexible
systems for the reception of asylum seekers and new arrivals
that promotes rapid establishment in the labor market
for those granted residence permits. Investigation
shall, inter alia, review the settlement in the period before
residence and settlement of newcomers.

Never have so many foreign-born gone to work now.
Of those who received the job since 2006 is 200 000 Foreign
born. Common to them all is that they are there and contribute
for our common welfare, not least by three in ten
doctor, dentist every fourth and one in four university teachers
is foreign-born.
The way into the Swedish society is through work, self
Supply and language skills. The Alliance government has put
on integration policies, with a focus on jobs and languages,
a faster start in the community. The faster the job more
better. With early individual efforts can the immigrants
to Sweden as soon as possible to come into work and create
a new future here. The disposal mentality
previously dominated have been broken and the coming to Sweden come together now to the question of what they can contribute instead
the contribution system they should enter.

Alliance believes that Sweden will be better if more people move here
to build a better future. and work. We therefore opened
for labor. The Alliance and the Green Party's agreement has meant step towards increased mobility and
greater openness to the world. The reform has created more
roads in Sweden and facilitated recruitment for companies.
Labour leads to even more new jobs may

However, there remain challenges and further reforms are needed.
It still takes too long for a newly arrived immigrants to enter the job, and we must get better at taking advantage
all the skills that people bring with them to Sweden.
Jobs and language remains the key to integration. A movable
labor market with low thresholds for the first job is extraordinary
important for those who are new in Sweden. It must be easier to
combining work and training. Foreign certificates and qualifications
need faster validated.

52

We build Sweden

We build Sweden

53

"" We want to strengthen the work with refugee guides for a
more successfully involve civil society in
the integration process.
"" We want to provide refugees with residence permits opportunity
To learn Swedish during the time in the facility residents.

"" We want to improve the validation, among other things, through increased funding to reduce processing times.
"" We want to continue building out the additional university courses for foreign graduates easier
get a job, especially in occupations such as in health care.
"" We want to enhance Almi's advice to entrepreneurs
foreign background, the so-called IFS advice.

"" We want it to be possible to read on adult education in parallel with an entry-level job.
"" We want SFI greater extent should the target be adapted and individual study should be prepared.
SFI should be made part of adult education to avoid
overlaps in the paths of study and course offerings.
"" We want to strengthen the conditions for those learning
Swedish parallel improve their disciplinary and professional knowledge.
"" We want it to be easier to take the examination of parts of
grundvux and that unnecessary duplication should be avoided reading
by Swedish as a second language in Grundvux
no longer should overlap SFI courses.
"" We want to make an effort to improve the quality of
the secondary induction programs, in particular
in language introduction.
"" We want to strengthen the ongoing investment in the work preparatory establishment courses at folk high schools.
"" We want to extend the temporary focus on increased student grants for unemployed young people aged 20-24 to also
include recent immigrants of the same age who completed its expansion plan.

54

We build Sweden

We build Sweden

55

and special education teacher, earmarked investments to schools with major challenges have been other important parts of the foundation
for better results.

Education builds
Sweden strongly
Education in Sweden is of high quality and accessible to all. For the sake of the students but also for jobs,
welfare and cohesion. Parents should know that
when the kids get home from school, they have learned something
new in a safe environment. All students must meet the high expectations and given the support and stimulus of each
need to achieve learning objectives and grow on their own
conditions. The school will also provide training and learning for life - not just work. Regardless of background or where you go
in school. So given all children a good start in life.
The Alliance wants to continue to work for more knowledge in school. Target
is that Sweden within ten years will be on the top ten in Pisa measurements.

"" We want to bet on more trained teachers.
"" We want to invest in more career services at school. Specific
efforts are being made in the areas of social exclusion.
"" We want to focus on more specialist teachers.
"" We want to reduce class size in primary schools.
"" We want to invest in continuing carpet lift.
"" We want to invest in continuing läslyft.

MORE KNOWLEDGE IN SCHOOL
The results in Swedish schools has fallen in 20 years. The Alliance
takes this very seriously.
Alliance Government is pursuing a long-term reforms to
reversing the trend in school. A responsible economic policy has meant that we have been able to focus on school. Swedish students
has received more teaching, most skilled teachers have been
significantly higher salary and extensive investments in the development of teachers has been implemented. Earlier and more clearly
learning and knowledge follow-up, focus on teachers

56

Already during the first years at school lays the foundation for how
students make it through primary school. Need of assistance and
support needs identified and met early. This avoids
we have students who have difficulty reading and writing are falling behind
and may growing problem. Through a special primary lift want
Alliance give students more time with skilled teachers. It can
e.g. about smaller classes, higher teacher ratio and more specialist teachers. How this design should be determined by local needs.

We build Sweden

To all the students can get help early and get a good position to achieve the objectives should be the ten-year compulsory education and school starting place at the age of six, by pre-school classes are made
if a new grade 1 of primary school.
"" We want to introduce a ten-year primary school so that they too
youngest students get the right support and stimulation of the
learn to write, read and count.

We build Sweden

57

"" We want to introduce more math classes in high school.
"" We want to expand instructional time in physical education in elementary school with 100 hours, corresponding to a
increase in physical education by 20 percent.
To help students properly, those pupils followed up early so that the right kind of support,
given. Rating is a tool to clearly indicate how pupils are
and sends important signals of support needs. By rating increases
also the school's focus on knowledge results.
"" We want to establish a new learning to read and understand simple texts and introduce a mandatory assessment support in reading, writing and counting already in the
first school year.
"" We want to introduce ratings study year 4.
Students who arrived in Sweden after the start of school has special
challenges in learning Swedish while faster
than other students need to benefit from education to reach
school learning. The Alliance Government has invested more
tuition for these students and see the need for continued efforts to enhance its ability to quickly enter the
Swedish society.
"" We want to increase teaching time in Swedish for newly arrived students and other students with similar needs.
"" We want to ensure newcomers' skills
assessed promptly and that they quickly get a placement
in the appropriate grade and teaching group.

58

We build Sweden

"" We want to clarify the rules regarding preparation classes, among other things, to avoid that students remain
for long in these, and increase opportunities for new arrivals
for a period to get focus more on the subject Swedish.
As part of that increase results in school and to students
will have greater opportunities for teaching and learning, more time is needed in various subjects. For those students who have gone through
primary school without achieving upper secondary qualifications
needed more teaching to pick up the necessary skills. Some need more time and support to achieve learning objectives.
"" We want to introduce compulsory homework, that is,
an obligation for municipalities and independent providers
to offer homework help for all students, for all students to
have good prospects of success.
"" We want to introduce an obligation for the principals to offer summer school for students in grades eight and nine
risk of not achieving high school eligibility.
"" We want to extend compulsory schooling by one year for students in the current year nine who do not reach high school eligibility.

RIGHT TO CHOOSE SCHOOLS -
STRENGTHENING QUALITY CONTROL
School reform is one of the important choice reforms
increasing the ability of individuals to influence. For teachers and
principals has meant new opportunities to realize their
educational aspirations and the increased range of employers.

We build Sweden

59

We will safeguard all parents to choose schools for their
children. It should not be just those who can afford to move to a
accommodation near the school they think is best for their children
to have this opportunity. The free school choice is very much appreciated by students and parents. It gives influence over their own
the child's schooling. Children are different and have different needs. Parents must therefore be able to opt out of a school
you are not satisfied or where their children may not thrive.
In so far as possible, the same conditions and the same
high standards apply to all schools, regardless of the mode of operation.
There are successful schools that despite major challenges
succeed in its mission of knowledge. But there are also schools, both municipal and independent, where students year after year
exhibit poor performance. The Alliance can not accept. Alliance Government has strengthened the Schools Inspectorate opportunities
to supervise and cases of maladministration impose fines and
even closing a school that is too low quality. There is
Moreover reason to tighten up the regulations for independent schools in order to increase long-term nature and to ensure that
oversight functions well. It is also important not to hamper
for example parental cooperatives.
"" We will maintain the free school selection.
"" We want them engaged in educational activities should
take a long-term ownership.

60

a way that does not unduly increase the administrative burden for schools and principals.
"" We want it to be accessible and relevant information on all the schools and of the independent
Municipal courses offered in the municipality, so
making it easier for parents and students to choose a school.

Security and study
All students should be able to feel safe at school and have a good working atmosphere in the classroom. It is important for learning, pleasantness
and the opportunity to develop with respect for the person
one is. But bullying, mess in the classroom and late arrival
is still a widespread problem in the Swedish school
teachers need more support and guidance in the work of the study environment. During the next term of office wants the Alliance see an improved working environment for teachers and students. This work has also
parents an important responsibility to convey the values ​​of collaboration
with the teachers.
A well-functioning health in schools is important, not least to prevent mental illness. Alliance Government has provided funds in a
special focus on student health in order to enable it to continue to evolve and get more benefit.

"" We want the Schools Inspectorate will examine the standalone principal's suitability for the establishment or
ownership.

"" We want schools to be able to give students in high school
and high school a written order review. Order Reviewed should not be included in the final grade.

"" We want transparency in independent and municipal schools
economy will increase and we want to increase transparency by
introducing announces the Protection of employees in independent schools.
Transparency principle will also apply. This will take place on

"" We want to strengthen school health within the framework of the initiative
towards children and young people's mental health.

We build Sweden

We build Sweden

61

A UPPVÄRDERAT TEACHING PROFESSION
AND STRONG SCHOOL LEADERSHIP
Teachers are the key to increasing knowledge results. It is
therefore worrying that the status of the teaching profession has been low for a long time
and that too few seek out teaching profession, even though the number of applicants has increased in recent years. The percentage of trained teachers
in schools is increasing, but the lack of qualified teachers is great in some
substances. The Alliance wants to continue to work to raise the status
the teaching profession and recruit more to teacher training, especially
to the underserved.
"" We want to expand preschool and teacher training programs as well
special teacher education.
"" We want to introduce a premium for speciallärar- or special education degree as well as for teacher exam within
mathematics, biology, chemistry, physics or engineering.
"" We want to create more routes into the teaching profession for those who
already subject knowledge by expanding supplementary education.
"" We want to expand the number of first teachers in the school.

"" We want to introduce digitized national tests with external
correction to the extent that is appropriate and possible
to free up more time for education and to increase
equivalence of correction.
"" We want to remove the mandatory individual development in grades 4 and 5 when the grades in these grades are introduced
to reduce teachers' administrative burden.

A secondary school for jobs
AND HIGHER EDUCATION
A new secondary school with higher standards are in place. The vocational programs prepare young people better for the labor market through more time for vocational subjects. Apprenticeship,
strengthen the link between education and the labor market, have
introduced as a permanent alternative and multiple bets
implemented to increase the scope and quality of the workplace learning. Entrepreneurship in education
and investment in the UAS are other important activities
the Alliance government implemented.

Teachers will be able koncentera on the instruction and we
need to do more to reduce the administrative burden. Good teachers should have high salary. To make the teaching profession more attractive also needed opportunities for career and professional development.
Therefore, the Alliance established a special government grant that provides wage increases of 5000 and 10 000 per month
especially skilled teachers with a career service first teacher
each lecturer.

Secondary schools represent an important part of the national supply of skills. During the next term, we want to facilitate the transition of young people to the labor market and strengthen
secondary school's contribution to the national supply of skills, particularly in areas where there is a shortage of trained
labor. To cope with the labor market skills needs, it is important that vocational programs are attractive to students. The matching between labor market needs, educational opportunities and student interest to run smoothly.

62

We build Sweden

We build Sweden

63

"" We want to increase the attractiveness of the technology and health care programs through clearer professional outputs, technical college and nurses.

LEISURE FOR SECURITY,
KNOWLEDGE AND COHESION
Leisure-time high quality supplements school, can improve students' opportunities for achieving the knowledge targets and do
it easier for more parents to work. By creating a
meaningful leisure with lots of movement and social activities
can school centers contribute to a calmer and safer school environment. In areas where many parents have lower educational level
or lower economic standard can be recreation centers play a
particularly important role. The development that has taken place over a long period of time against
large groups of children in recreation centers is worrying. The educational mission will be more difficult to fulfill. So it should not
be. Municipalities need to review the size of child groups
and the other conditions provided for recreation centers
to cope with its mission.
"" We want to reduce the size of the groups of children in leisure
through a performance-based support to those principals
with small groups of children or reduce the size
on large groups of children.

QUALITY IN PRESCHOOL
AND childcare
The preschool should provide children a safe care and is also
important to stimulate children's development and learning. Not
at least for children in need of extra support are important nursery for
create a good basis to get through school. An important prerequisite for pre-school should clear their mission is to children's groups, especially for the youngest children, has an appropriate size
and composition. Staff expertise is another
important part of improving the quality of preschool.
"" We want to strengthen the school's supervision of the nursery, with a focus on quality and effectiveness. The current supervision will be supplemented with regular
spot visits to a number of kindergartens in each
Municipality.
"" We want the School Inspectorate carries out a special three-year performance review. Children size of the groups should
especially analyzed.
"" We want to reduce the size of the groups of children in kindergarten
through a performance-based support to those principals
with small groups of children or reduce the size
on large groups of children.
"" We want to permanently increase the number of places in pre-school teacher training.
"" We want to extend preschool lift to 2018, with
focusing on, inter alia, science and technology and
mother tongue and multilingualism.
"" We want to implement a preschool director lift for 2015-2018
to develop pedagogical leadership in preschool.

64

We build Sweden

We build Sweden

65

Freedom of establishment and various forms of childcare is important
to meet the needs of families of various childcare solutions, such as family. The Alliance has by
introduction of childcare vouchers stimulated more shapes and the ability of municipalities to introduce child-raising has increased the opportunity for those who want to provide child care in the home addition
the duration of parental insurance permits. Alliance Government
also dedicating resources to stimulate municipalities to
providing care during evenings, nights and weekends.

HIGHER EDUCATION FOR
Knowledge and education
Higher education plays a major role in the formation and the possibility
to share knowledge and freely seek new. Sweden has never had
such a well-educated population that now. The proportion of young people
go on to higher education is high and over a quarter
of the adult population has tertiary education. Off
those who leave school in the next few years, more
over 60 percent have the opportunity to study in higher education.
The Alliance Government has made significant investments to increase
the quality of higher education. Reduced the state income tax has also made it more profitable to educate themselves.
The Alliance Government has expanded the number of places in higher education whose demand for labor is high. The
applies e.g. medical, nursing, and
The engineering. In some professions, it will still
to be a shortage of skilled labor. . It is also important
To the university's educational programs meet future needs. One
Investigation has therefore commissioned to analyze this and assess whether the supply is balanced in relation to quality,
student demand and the labor market.

66

We build Sweden

"" We want to increase the number of seats for among others teachers, specialist nurses and midwives, and make a special
effort to train preschool teachers to be competent also for primary school. In total there will be a
increase of about 10 000 students per year.
The Alliance Government has also expanded post-secondary
adult education and established the Polytechnic. The company
may recruit qualified vocational skills is central to
competitiveness and growth. The Alliance Government has also
strengthening adult education including through a clearer opportunity to contribute to the integration process.
The Swedish study support system is one of the world's most
generous and Alliance Government has in recent years
made several increases in student aid. To further enhance the students' ability to focus on their studies
and to increase throughput, suggests the Alliance an increase in student loan. Alliance Government also promotes learning
all through life and the possibility of conversion, among others. a. through
height age limit for student aid.
"" We want to increase student aid so that students receive 1000
SEK extra per month.

We build Sweden

67

Quality and
availability in a
health care for all
As we live longer and can treat more and more illnesses changing demands on health services. The Alliance
Based is a medical era of quality and accessibility for all. Differences in the quality or availability of
regions or based on, for example, gender or educational background to be counteracted.
Since 2006, access to care improved. Waiting lists have been reduced and we have seen a sharp increase in the number of health centers
and longer opening hours. The quality of health care has also
strengthened over time and patients are more satisfied with the care.
Sweden is today one of the world's best countries for healthcare. We
investing more resources than ever before on health care. The
are more active physicians and nurses than ever,
we educate addition, more than ever before. Pharmacies reform has brought more pharmacies, better service, and we can
buy prescription medicines in supermarkets and petrol stations.

INCREASING AVAILABILITY
AND BETTER QUALITY
Despite shorter queues are too many people still feel that it can be difficult to get in contact with health services. Some councils do not manage the requirements of national
care guarantee and there are big differences between county councils.
While waiting times in health care has substantially shortened the senas68

We build Sweden

few years is the lack of coordination and cooperation within and
between health care providers a problem in today's health care.
Therefore kömiljarden developed, including in terms of time limits and to cover the entire continuum of care.
"" We want kömiljarden develop into a samordningsoch availability billion. In addition to continue to promote
availability and short queues, it will also increase the principals conditions and driving forces that create more
cohesive care chains and increase caregivers' overall responsibility for the patient.
The choice in primary care has been a major and positive change in terms of accessibility, innovation focus
and efficiency. But still the primary care's share of
outpatient low compared with many other countries,
primary care is often worse than the specialized
care in the evaluations. We therefore want to drive the development of quality primary care. We also consider the need for further reforms to strengthen patient power. Among other things
should reform for more freedom of choice should be considered.
Evaluations have shown considerable regional differences within
cancer care. Through increased targeted resources and by
gathering the expertise we want to strengthen equality and quality of cancer care.
"" We want to invest 500 million per year from 20,152,018 to reduce waiting times in cancer care
and an increased quality in general. The investment will be
Also contributing to the rapid diagnosis and prevention.
"" We want to gather some advanced cancer at a smaller
number of hospitals to improve quality.
We build Sweden

69

A special investigator has been instructed to review how the
highly specialized care can be developed through increased
concentration. The inquiry will be completed in 2015 and contribute to
improved health outcomes, thus also a more equitable
care.
An important condition for high quality healthcare is the dissemination and application of the best available knowledge. It will
does not depend on where the caregiver is working what access available
evidence-based knowledge. Coordinated expertise can also
lead to better utilization of resources. Better knowledge base can help increase patient safety, efficient resource utilization and greater equality.
"" We want to set up a national knowledge guide for health care
staff.

STRENGTHENING care of elderly
People with high needs to feel involved in their
own care. The Alliance Government has forcefully concentrated on improving care for the most ill elderly, among other things,
financial incentives for collaboration. The goal has been to get the care and treatment to collaborate better and to
using resources more efficiently so that health and social care to a greater extent based on patient needs. Among other things, this has resulted in safer use of medicines for
older and better palliative care. For an elderly person
with many different symptoms and diagnoses can contacts
with different authorities, businesses and staff categories
still be hard to see. The most ill elderly have
Today many contacts in the health and social care, which can
70

We build Sweden

result in lower quality for the patient, and higher costs for
healthcare overall. There is potential for improvement in terms of cooperation between municipalities and counties. Continuity in vårdoch care contacts is also important.
"" We want to introduce a performance-based incentive grants
to be paid to counties and municipalities that closes
a regional agreement on cooperation for
improved care and care for the elderly.
The people affected by dementia are particularly vulnerable. A well-functioning dementia is therefore one of
the basic conditions for the functioning of the elderly. This in turn requires skilled, well-trained and highly motivated
staff. Research on dementia have shown that the relationship with the nursing staff is among the most important in the care of dementia patients. Therefore, the employees in health care and
Care is given both time and resources and specific knowledge of
dementia in order to be able to create a good dementia care as possible.
"" We want to develop a national dementia plan in order to promote greater knowledge of dementia diseases and the spread of knowledge. It will also contribute to
a more efficient use of existing resources such as
through research collaborations, the development and dissemination of better tools to work at, for example investigation and
diagnostics, treatment and care or support to relatives.

We build Sweden

71

TRAIN MORE DOCTORS
And nurses

disease prevention. Still, there are, however,
health gains to make in prevention.

There is a shortage of doctors and nurses, despite the fact that Sweden today has 3,500 more doctors and 5,200 more nurses than
2006. Alliance government continues to expand medical school
and nursing education. The possibilities to recruit
trained staff is critical to the health services
be able to provide a good and safe health care.

Many health problems are related to alcohol, tobacco and obesity.
Through early detection and personalized treatment approach, many public health problems prevented.

"" We want to take steps to county councils better
to plan for their succession planning.

"" We want to raise the tax on alcohol.

"" We want to expand the number of places on the training of midwives.

"" We want to raise the tax on tobacco.

"" We want to expand the number of places on specialist nursing.

"" We want to develop and improve health services
for people with chronic diseases through continued
work within the framework of the national strategy.

PREVENTION
Public health in Sweden are developing positively, and life expectancy
continues to increase. Changes in lifestyle towards a healthier
life enables more people to stay healthy longer.
The Alliance government has made investments in, among other things, health coaches and pharmaceutical reviews. There are also good
examples of counties that offer health consultations and thus
gives people better opportunities to feel involved
and motivation, if necessary, change their lifestyles. Between 2014 and 2017 the Alliance is investing SEK 450 million in
a national strategy to prevent and treat chronic diseases. It aims among other things to the development of innovative methods of patient involvement as well as tools for active
self-care. Within the venture are also given support to primary health care
72

Only two out of ten people with chronic and long term illnesses believe that they are involved in their own care. This shows
that there are deficiencies in care when it comes to meet patients' individual needs.

We build Sweden

STRENGTHENING THE PATIENT'S POSITION
Research shows that patient involvement leads to better care and
better health. 1 January 2015 enters Alliance Government
new patients' effect. It clarifies and strengthens the patients
position through enhanced involvement, choice and information. Care should be based on the patient's own conditions
and patients receive a total staid option to choose the provider
of primary care and open specialized care throughout the country.
"" We want to strengthen the patient's position further through
to establish a digital service - Health For Me - where
individual will easily be able to gather and store information
about his own health.
We build Sweden

73

A good, safe
country to grow old
Aging often means an increased need for help in daily life.
How aid designed greatly affects the quality of life. The Alliance's premise is that every person is unique, with
own wishes and interests. The right to self-determination
is equally important, regardless of age. The welfare paid with our
common resources must therefore be characterized by great freedom,
high quality, in a dignified manner and be available for
all who need it.
Sweden older can expect more years of good health than in the
most countries. Today we live on average 20 years after retirement. There is a fantastic development. But it requires
also a change in the perception of the elderly. It is important that policy show understanding and respect for the elderly are not a homogeneous group of people with the same needs and desires. The
have created more avenues to facilitate people to
live the active lifestyle they want to live.

PENSIONS
The Alliance Government has, thanks to a job policies with more
in work and responsible economic policies, have been able to reduce
Tax for pensioners on five occasions. An average retiree pays today SEK 850 less per month in taxes compared with 2006. The households that are eligible for housing, in addition to tax cuts, with a gain of
340 per month. For pension income up to approximately
SEK 14 000 per month, corresponding to these measures tillsam74

We build Sweden

male earned income tax on the corresponding income. A guarantee pensioner has 2014 approximately SEK 1 800 more in disposable
income every month and an average income retiree
with housing about 2 000 more compared to 2006.
We see no intrinsic value in a pension and earned income is taxed differently.
A stronger economy and more jobs creates opportunities
for a positive development of pensions in the future
years. Nothing is more important for pensioners economy than
Employment and hours worked are developing well
and that real wage increases, because pensions are linked to economic development. Pensions expected
the years ahead to develop favorably, and the alliance with the Social Democrats, a review of the pension system to avoid the relatively large jerkiness in retirement developments.

HEALTHIER, SAFER
AND RICHER EVERYDAY
It is obvious that also older should have a meaningful living
with interests and pastimes. Socialising
can further contribute to more healthy years. Many live unfortunately in involuntary solitude. Security Accommodation with internet access and new technologies can break isolation and encourage participation.
A more structured cooperation between municipalities and non-profit organizations can also create better conditions for
more people to live a rich life.
"" We want to identify the state of knowledge and providing guidance and training with a focus on activation of older, early detection and treatment of mental illness

We build Sweden

75

"" We want to identify the state of knowledge regarding rehabilitation and home health care among the elderly.
"" We want to promote old people deltaktighet in cultural life through the initiative of Culture for the elderly.
Be able to choose where and how they want to live is a central part of
autonomy and well-being. RUT services have
facilitating everyday life for the approximately 180,000 older people who use them. The Alliance Government has opened up new
for the elderly. We have also invested in a particular
Investment for the construction of special housing and
secure housing which has led to over 10 000 elderly homes have been built. However, it is still 40 per cent of municipalities that do not cover their needs. A new provision strikes
the elderly as far as possible will be able to choose when and
the support and assistance of the home must be given, and since 2012 there
a statutory parboendegaranti.
We believe that options need more, both on the regular
the housing market and in the form of various security and welfare for the elderly. In this way, opportunities for self-determination is improved, mobility in the housing market increase and
the need for special accommodation postponed, creating the opportunity for older people in need of special accommodation to get some of it into
time. Through improved opportunities and a new obligation for
municipalities to offer a place in sheltered housing decreases
insecurity for older people who wonder if there will be
place for them on the day they need to move to a nursing home.
It also increases the driving force for municipalities to have good home care and spend more on security accommodations.
"" We want all municipalities are able to offer
sheltered housing or residential care without assistance assessment.
76

We build Sweden

"" We want all municipalities will be obliged to offer
place in a secure housing - a retirement home warranty for all those over 85 years and has been granted home help.
"" Do we want the investment support for sheltered housing and
special accommodation is extended and strengthened in order to promote access to housing for the elderly.

ONE MEAL FOR LIFTING
ELDERLY CARE AND PRESCHOOL
Tasty and nutritious food is essential for our well-being and
satisfaction. Many of the elderly do not eat enough. The
is often due to shortcomings in the meal quality and design.
The quality of food in the fiscal activities around
the country and the possibilities to choose and participate in how the food is cooked is therefore of great importance. People
be able to influence the food even in old age. Accommodation
where staff cook together with the elderly or adapts the elderly requests for food at different times are often happier and healthier older.
The elderly living at home but it's hard to cook
themselves can get help with food deliveries. Often it takes the form
of the fixed portion sizes of catering. Many municipalities
today are seeking ways to improve food quality and food situation of the elderly. Good examples can be downloaded from
municipalities that have found good solutions to increase freedom of choice.
It could for example involve agreements with local restaurants offering home delivery of meals to the elderly. We would like to see a
Continued progress in this direction.
Participation in the meal gives another dimension. The Alliance
therefore want participation should be an explicit goal in more expensive plans.
We build Sweden

77

Good eating habits are established early and in the nursery there are opportunities to utilize meals as part of the educational
work. To allow children to be involved in cooking the food increases
understand the electricity for the importance of food for health.
The public should have high ambitions in its procurement of food the animal welfare and the environment. Within
Culinary Sweden've Alliance government established a national
excellence for meals in healthcare, education and care
who now works to support and encourage municipalities and
county. A national food lift that rewards the elderly and nursery schools that focus on better quality food
will contribute to raising awareness of the importance of food.
"" We want to implement a national meal lifting addressed
to the elderly and the nursery where the main part
aside for the elderly. The initiative enables
municipalities and independent operators of elderly care or pre-school to seek stimulus grant to develop and improve the quality of meals and
increased participation.
"" We want to continue to support the competence center for meals in healthcare, education and care.

The right to choose - and cut down
Patients 'and users' needs should guide the design
welfare services. Elderly care should be characterized by good
quality. The right to own choice becomes even more important for the elderly
the ability to control the daily limit that they need care. In 2009, introduced the Law on System of Choice.
Nowadays provided about one-seventh of välfärds78

We build Sweden

services from private providers. Increased choice strengthens
empowering people and make it possible to deselect the
practitioners who have shortcomings or insufficient kvalitetet in
business. It is not reasonable for municipalities to refuse
older choice. The values ​​that are enshrined in law, focusing on elderly care that every elderly person should experience
optimal comfort.
We also welcome the emergence of alternatives, such as the elderly, focusing on specific diagnoses, language groups or with LGBTQ skills. We want the next Parliament to continue to develop the freedom of choice in areas where the
today is severely limited for those who need care, but
obvious to others. This applies e.g. right to choose food or
transportation service. Moreover, the choice being developed to provide the ability to purchase other additional services, for example to go
the excursion.
"" We want to introduce a requirement on local authorities to provide freedom of choice for the elderly, either through procurement,
a framework agreement or permission.
"" We want to further strengthen the individual's influence over
contents of the care through a simplified aid assessment.
Eldercare operates essentially good. It happens
However, operators, both private and public, is unacceptable
quality defects. Welfare services shall be conducted responsibly, efficiently and in the long term. Empowerment and choice needs to be supplemented by a further strengthening of the oversight and monitoring.
"" We want, together with principals, develop a
system to consolidate local self-control of

We build Sweden

79

operations in both municipal and private. In this
we strengthen supervision and control.

activities near managers who know best how business should be
conducted and what needs to be prioritized locally.

"" We want the Agency for Health Care to develop their oversight to include the municipalities
performs its own checks.

Work in elderly care needs to become more attractive to
ensuring that it will remain available qualified personnel
who choose to stay longer in the same workplace. In this
method utilized experience and knowledge. The earned income tax
has made that a nursing assistant has received 1800 crowns more in your pocket each month. The freedom of choice means that there are several different
employers to choose from, and it is possible to change
job if you are not satisfied with the situation. It also strengthens
status of the profession.

"" We want to improve the quality and monitoring through the development of better assessment tools such as eHealth, open comparisons and assessment support to officers in order to better identify family members' needs and
situation at an assistance assessment.
Today there is no possibility of designating in advance anyone who can
help if you yourself become too old or too sick to
take care of their own health or the economy. Instead, it
referred to local good men. We want to give everyone
more power over their future by opening up to others
solutions for those who prefer to receive support from a kin
or a friend.
"" We want to introduce the possibility of so-called future Powers.

STRENGTHENING THE EMPLOYEES AND
LEADERSHIP in elderly care

Good leadership is essential to increase motivation and attract
more to the elderly. The Alliance Government has taken the initiative
a leadership initiative that has been very much in demand. we want
now give more managers the chance to train for thereby
create a better working environment and to increase the attractiveness. Municipalities also have good opportunities to other
strengthen leadership in elderly care, for example, by
trainee programs to find potential managers and through clearer career step in the operation.
"" We want to extend nursing lift to continue strengthening both the basic and specialized
the skills of staff in elderly care.
"" We want to continue the leadership training for managers in
elderly care.

Quality of elderly care created by employees, by
their skills and actions. They often describe their work
as meaningful and full of joy. But also that it hard work
and stressful. They want to do a good job, but sometimes held back by
lack of leadership, limited influence and bad conditions.
The Alliance is clear that it is the employees and the verk80

We build Sweden

We build Sweden

81

conduct aimed at a wider dissemination of the sanctions applied and
thus to a more proportionate application of the sentencing range.

A safer society
Crime violates people's freedom, life, health and the right to their
property. Therefore we can never tolerate crime. But it
there is no easy answer to how we create a safer society.
By standing up for each other and speak up when we see that
someone is treated badly or when a crime is committed, we are strengthening
cohesion and marks right and wrong. Needless
also found optimism in all sectors of society. Hope for
to create a better life. Prospects of getting a job. A belief that it is better to be a part of society than
Choosing a life on the side. A confidence that when people
feeling bad, there is a safety net and fellowmen
captures and shows. And knowing that when it is committed
a crime, society will respond quickly and clearly,
both to assist the victim as to investigate the offense.

CLEAR REACTION AGAINST CRIME
The alliance wants those who commit crimes are punished and that
victims are seen and feel safe. The penalty to be
be proportionate to the offense so that victims obtain redress,
and offender should be able to atone for their crimes and have the opportunity to
a new chance.
The Alliance Government has implemented numerous penalties tightening the focus on violent crime. The aim was to significantly tighten the penalties imposed. But the reform has not
fully had the desired impact. For the most serious crimes
shall be punished harder we want to raise minimum penalties for a number of
crimes. The changes of the Alliance implemented and want to implement

82

We build Sweden

"" We want to strengthen penalties for homicide, especially aggravated assault, aggravated assault, aggravated robbery, aggravated extortion,
aggravated assault and aggravated unlawful coercion.
"" We want to introduce the aggravated rape and negligence offense regarding rape as new crimes.
"" We want to see the crime of rape and consider the question
lack of consent.
"" We want to tighten the punishment for drug offenses.
"" We want to tighten the punishment for the purchase of a sexual act
children.
Never before has the Swedish legal system made equal
efforts against organized crime. But the events of recent years like Göteborg and Södertälje underlines the necessity to continue the fight. For
reduce organized crime must recruitment to criminal networks strongly discouraged. The
will be support available for those who want to leave the criminal
life. To access crime moves across borders also need the judiciary to cooperate internationally.
EU cooperation involves strengthening capacity to combat
cross-border crime.
"" We want to tighten the criminalization of offenses committed
within the framework of organized criminal activity.
"" We want to strengthen penalties for human trafficking and pimping.

We build Sweden

83

"" We want it to be easier to seize criminals'
assets.
"" We want it to be harder and more expensive to get out more
Passport to counter trafficking in passports.
"" We want to tighten criminal responsibility for the failure to uncover and prevent crime for persons connected
to the criminal activities in which the crime was committed.
We must look particularly serious crimes committed against
people on the basis of ethnicity, religion, sexual
orientation or gender identity. Full Sweden to be a safe
country to live in for everyone and hate crimes threatening the tolerance and openness that characterizes and will characterize Sweden.
It is a serious problem that a Swedish citizen battles
abroad of terrorists organizations. They threaten
not only the lives of others, they risk their own lives and they represent
also a potential security risk upon return to Sweden.
"" We want to examine measures, including further criminalization, towards preparing for trips in order to participate in combat
or weapons training abroad of terrorists
organizations in accordance with the list, which the EU or
The UN has decided. In this context we want to review the
the ability to confiscate passports to stop such
planned trips.
"" We want to do a review of whether the criminalization of
participation in armed activities of terrorists organizations, in Sweden or abroad further
can be enhanced.

84

We build Sweden

The consequences of committing crime should be swift and
felt. A victim should never be left with a sense of
it is he who made the error. The penalty should help to
prevent new crime while providing an opportunity for the
sentenced to make new life choices.
We can never accept a development where the family, the gang
or other groupings take on the State's role and
administer justice and benefits liability. If you choose to turn
judiciary back should be consequences. Persons
who repeatedly relapse into crime to feel that society reacts.
Today will be a person who usually released from prison after two
thirds of their sentence, even if prison time was marked
an unwillingness to change their lives. People who strive
to change their situation, for example by studies or
job preparatory action, will be rewarded in front of it as
not taking responsibility.
Probation relapse prevention efforts need to be strengthened, including by making more players more involved in active utslussning work, and efforts to
reach the target of 85 per cent employment rate among the inmates
needs to be intensified. The Alliance also wants to have a relapse
clearer consequences than today. Thus marking the society's expectations and creates incentives for people to
get back on track.
"" We believe that those who relapse into crime and sentenced to
a new prison will serve three quarters of the
new penalty.
"" We want the reoffending after being released
from prison to receive their entire conditional adders freedom
forfeit in significantly more cases than today.

We build Sweden

85

"" We believe that an accused person who has provided information to
significant importance for the investigation of their own crime
should be able to get a shorter sentence than that which would otherwise
have been imposed.
"" We want to further limit the opportunities for conditional
the release of the inmate misconduct or not active
participated in the activities.
"" We want to see new forms of cooperation between Probation and other stakeholders in order to improve the opportunities for redeployment to a life free of crime.
"" We want to give Correctional commissioned to expand and develop the work with special utslussning measures
order to prepare the inmates for life after time
Establishment.
"" We want to strengthen the access to vocational training in institutions.
Mediation is a method that can help victims of crime - and
criminal - to proceed for a criminal offense committed. This sub
provided that both want to participate and to act is recognized.
The public may be better able to contribute to it as
commits an offense also- if the victim wants it - can be given the opportunity to directly indemnify the victim. Mediation closing Meetings
sometimes with the perpetrator and the victims included an oral
or written agreement which may contain promises of future behavior, financial compensation to the victim or compensation through work.

A GOOD START IN LIFE
A safe growth and a stable schooling is the best protection
towards a life of crime. Parents have the primary responsibility for
their children's development and upbringing. Although childcare
86

We build Sweden

and the school has significance and are important places for prevention.
The young people who end up in crime have often attracted the attention of social services even before the age of 15. These
youths have, in most cases, more difficult than others,
having problems in school and worse home. Successful crime prevention and security-building work
in schools requires cooperation between several different actors. School
social services, police, civil society and parents have a joint responsibility. The alliance wants to see zero tolerance for bullying and
violations. The police should have developed cooperation with each school. This creates confidence in the judiciary and
given opportunities to reduce the number of crimes committed.
In addition, the willingness to report crimes committed increase. We need new juvenile penalties that increase the equality of treatment and achieve a more uniform, transparent and
credible system.
"" We want the weekend capture with electronic tagging should be used as a sanction for young people aged 15-18. At the weekend capture must be the young a certain period to be at home or at another location specified in the specific
times.
National Police had in 2011 contracted to initiate a pilot project with social intervention teams where police, social services,
school, parents and other stakeholders intensified cooperation for
to help young people who are about to be off. That the whole
society interact and work towards the same goals is vital for adolescents to break a criminal court. Since
the pilot project ended, the responsibility to continue
with or establish social intervention teams of municipalities and
other relevant local actors.

We build Sweden

87

"" We want to continue to support social intervention teams to
ensuring that the interaction between the police and relevant local
actors becomes a natural part of ordinary operations.

"" We want to criminalize identity theft.
"" We want to raise requirements for identity cards and bank cards.

"" We want the police and social services which discovers young people
risk should contact the parents of a "orossamtal".

"" We want to tighten the criminalization of systematic invoice fraud, the so-called false invoices.
"" We want to criminalize attempts at receiving.

Day security
A burglary in the home is often perceived as very offensive,
even if the value of the stolen goods is not so great. Residential Burglary leads today to the low penalty. For that penalties should end up at a reasonable level in terms of residential burglary, a new
offenses introduced. It is burglary and volume crime
which affect people in everyday life. In addition, they often
a gateway to more serious crime. To stronger Alliance
combating such crime.
"" We want to introduce a new criminal offense "burglary"
which shall have a minimum sentence of imprisonment for one year.
"" We want to reduce the penalty discount for multiple crimes.
The technology is developing rapidly and open new
types of crime. It is becoming easier to commit crimes
affects many, and that means big problems for small businesses and individuals. Online sales have also increased risks
to someone hijacks your identity and has also facilitated
criminals to sell stolen goods. Systematic crime of
this kind could ultimately lead to a deterioration in competitiveness, fewer jobs and less growth.

88

We build Sweden

Domestic violence
Each year, beaten or murdered tens of thousands of women of their
current or former partner. Too few dare to police. There are estimates that say that at least 150 000
children live in homes where there is violence. Thousands of people living under threat from their families because of a 'culture of honor. That is unacceptable. Society must mark
vigorously against these crimes. Individual rights and freedoms are
universal and no restriction should be justified
culture or tradition. The judiciary has the tools
to protect the victims. The Alliance government has tightened penalties
for gross violation of integrity and gross violations of women. We do not recognize anymore marriages contracted abroad through agents, we have tightened the protection against child marriage and criminalize forced marriage. The Alliance believes that it is required
further action to combat this type of crime.
"" We want the electronic tagging will be used for
more cases of contact ban.
"" We will evaluate the effects of punishment sharpening regarding gross violations of women. If the reform has not had the intended effect of the Alliance is not opposed to make the penalties more.

We build Sweden

89

"" We want to bring the County Board funds for initiatives
aimed at combating men's violence against women, children
witnessing violence, honor-related violence and oppression and
prostitution and human trafficking.
"" We want to take further action to prevent
Young gets married against their will.
"" We want women's and girls' shelters, which make indispensable contributions to offer threatened and abused women
protection and assistance, to receive their long-term financing secured.
It is important to also work preventively against violence. The Government has funded a project with activities
which caters to individuals, mainly men, who commit or
the risk of exercising sexual violence and related thereto and
staff in relevant activities.
"" We want to provide continuing support for activities
to preventively prevent violence and abuse.

SECURITY AND GENDER EQUALITY
FOR YOUNG
Equality challenged in the public domain. Näthat has
become a part of daily life and affects in many cases women
particularly hard. Our young people risk being affected more by what
happening online and by peers than by the adult world.
A gender challenge for the adult world - parents, teachers, civil society, policy - is to take greater responsibility for
growth environment for our children where respect and clarity
about what is right and wrong. As part of the work with den90

We build Sweden

na challenge the Alliance Government reinforced efforts to combat threats,
abuses and harassment online.
"" We want to crimes illegal threats, harassment, defamation and insult clarified and updated.
"" We want to strengthen the protection against the spread of integrity of sensitive materials such as revenge porn, with regard to
Constitution.
"" We want to tighten the punishment for grooming.

EFFECTIVE POLICE
The police should be a security. For the police to investigate more crimes and have time to appear on the streets Alliance government has done historically large increase in resources. Since 2006,
police have received more than SEK 5 billion in additional resources and we have
today significantly more police than before, even in relation to
population. There are also more police officers in vulnerable areas
which gives better opportunities to work long-term and prevention.
But the police investigation results are still bad. We
Furthermore, a downward trend, with fewer people of solved crimes in recent years. Alliance message is clear.
The police should focus on the core tasks that are most important:
crime prevention, emergency and investigation. More
crimes are investigated and lead to a conviction.
"" We want to streamline police tasks, for example, by trying some of the police tasks can be spent on other
agencies.

We build Sweden

91

"" We want to see how notification of sex crimes are handled
and investigated and consider the need for action.
With the new police organization that will take effect in January
2015 will create better opportunities to move resources within the country and the chain of responsibility will be clearer. Police working methods need to be developed when the crime is changing. Modern technology should become a natural part of
business as more and more crime takes place on the Internet. The civilian investigators with special expertise in areas such as IT and environmental crime could be used in a more efficient manner.

"" We want companies that sell products or receive
commission on sales to consumers should not get
call itself independent adviser.

"" We want civil investigators in some cases to get police officer
power.

STRENGTHS AND savvy consumers
A functioning market economy requires strong and knowledgeable consumers can make informed choices in an increasingly
complex and global market where new products and services are constantly being launched. The alliance will safeguard consumers to a
strong position locally, nationally and in the EU.
Over-indebtedness is a growing social and public health problem, which not least young people at risk of falling into the debt trap. The alliance wants to introduce stricter penalties for unfair
marketing and increase protection for telesales. The
to require the written approval of the contract by phone should
become binding and rogue telephone campaigns should be discontinued.
Unfortunately, many consumers end up in a knowledge disadvantage
the financial market. The alliance wants frivolous and careless
financial advice should be discouraged.
92

We build Sweden

We build Sweden

93

World leader for
Environment and Climate
Sweden is and will be a green pioneer. To achieve a good living environment for humans, animals and nature is a
central political task. The climate and environmental challenges
facing our society wants the Alliance to meet with actions
based on knowledge, on the best available technology and at what
which is economically efficient. In this way, our actions largest possible result for the environment. Growth is essential for us to get to grips with the world
environmental challenges and climate change. The climate change meeting
best by effective instruments that contribute to both technological and behavioral changes.
We want to build on Sweden's opportunities to lead development through our research, our access to natural resources
and broad commitment that exists in the community on environmental and climate issues. Climatic, environmental and energy challenges
provides an opportunity for Swedish companies in the international demand for sustainable and resource efficient goods and
services increases.
The Alliance has continued to strengthen Swedish environmental and climate policy
and we achieve results. Emissions of greenhouse gases in Sweden
declined by 14 percent since 2006. During the same
period, the proportion of renewable energy has increased by over
8 percentage points and Sweden with over 50 percent renewable energy, the EU country with the highest proportion. Since 2006,
the number of green cars has increased significantly and wind out of ten
times more electricity. In other areas we see progress. The
annual nitrogen input to the Baltic Sea has declined. Area
94

We build Sweden

protected nature has, since 2006, increased by 350 000 hectares,
which is equivalent to an area larger than the island of Gotland. SOEs have clear objectives to strengthen their sustainability efforts. We
has increased the state's environmental budget of five billion since
In 2006.

A LONG-TERM climate and ENERGY POLICY
Climate change is the greatest challenge and requires
both regional, national and global solutions. Dependence
of fossil fuels is both a burden on the environment and
geopolitical risk. European dependence on Russian gas
contribute to emissions of carbon dioxide and instability. Several EU countries have not asked for the coal-dependent while others increased their
dependence on fossil sources by closing down nuclear power
or invest too little in renewable sources. Sweden will continue
Investing in renewable energy and we must nurture the energy agreement that the Alliance met. It provides a stable environment for industry and environmentally sustainable direction.
The polluting the environment should pay for itself. The foundation of our
Climate policy is the principle of a price on carbon. Carbon tax on fossil fuels and a developed emissions trading system within the EU are efficient instruments and therefore central
in Swedish climate policy.
The long term vision of the Alliance adopted is that Sweden
2050 will have a sustainable and resource-efficient energy supply
and no net emissions of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. We have
appointed a commission, Climate Roadmap 2050, to develop a
strategy for how Sweden should get there. Through this focus
Sweden is contributing in an ambitious way to the global emission reductions required in the long term.
Sweden exports low-carbon electricity to Europe. In this way we can handle
our own needs while contributing to reduced klimatVi builds Sweden

95

emissions on our continent. Through a good business climate,
research and effective policy instruments, new opportunities
in energy, transport, energy storage and
smart grids, which can strengthen our competitiveness and open
new export opportunities.
"" We want to implement a control for climate and energy policy in 2015 to analyze how the energy system
developed in relation to the objectives set
up in 2020.
"" We want to lower taxes for self-generated renewable electricity.
"" We want to streamline the permitting process to connect
a new customer to the electricity grid.
"" We want to continue to work to promote Swedish environmental technology exports.
Climate impacts are already evident in Sweden and adaptation to a
Climate change is becoming increasingly important. Sweden should be a leading country where better environment and reduced emissions go hand in
hand with economic growth.

It requires long-term and effective policy instruments for increased share of renewable fuels with high climate performance and electric power
as well as the efficient transport. Promoting technology development
in this area is critical to our ability to reach a
sustainable transport. Sweden is to reduce emissions from
transport and break the dependence on fossil fuels.
"" We want to give the renewable fuels continued long-term
and good conditions, and especially rewarding fuels with high carbon benefit through tax free others
generation biodiesel HVO.
"" We want to introduce a system where more environmentally friendly vehicles are rewarded when they purchase through a bonus,
while vehicles with high emissions of carbon dioxide have higher
vehicle, called Bonus-Malus system.
"" We want to extend and strengthen the super car rebate in
pending a Bonus-Malus system will come into effect.
"" We want to additionally raise the vehicle tax by raising
carbon dioxide amount.
"" We want to introduce a state support for the deployment of charging stations for electric cars.

SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT
The biggest challenge when it comes to break Sweden's dependence on fossil fuels is transport. This sector
contributing with the greatest national impact on climate and
This is the greatest dependence on imports of energy raw materials.
The Alliance Government has made a long series of actions and we can
already see the results. Of road transport emissions are reduced, new
vehicle emissions have declined considerably and the proportion of renewable fuels has increased significantly. But at the same time more efforts to.
96

We build Sweden

A global climate
Ahead of the UN Climate Conference in Paris, we want the EU to consolidate its leadership. A strong and constructive EU needed to achieve a global climate deal that keeps global warming below two degrees. The EU needs to decide on a
Climate and Energy framework for 2030 as soon as possible. The
is especially important to give European industry and other
actors in society, long-term guidance.
We build Sweden

97

The alliance wants the EU to agree on a climate in which emissions should be reduced by a total of 50 per cent by 2030.
40 points to be achieved internally within the EU, provided that it is done through a cost-effective distribution
between EU member countries. The remaining 10 percentage points are to be made via international mechanisms related
with other developed countries take their share of emission reductions.
Sweden and the EU have an obligation to the developing countries
to contribute to their adaptation and emissions reductions. The positive effects of sustainable development, not least
technology transfer and capacity building, and increases the chances of achieving climate goals in a cost effective manner. We
is also working to develop a global emissions market,
a global price on carbon emissions.
"" We want Sweden to be a driving force in international climate efforts to achieve an ambitious
global climate where major emitters take
a significant responsibility.

"" We want to continue and strengthen the resources for the Swedish climate investments in other countries.

A NON-TOXIC ENVIRONMENT
We should all be able to be confident that the products we buy
not harmful for us or the environment. Achieving
non-toxic environment is one of the Alliance's major priorities in environmental policy. The products that children surround themselves should be free
from dangerous substances. We want to create awareness among parents, and support municipalities so that they can impose clear
environmental requirements in the procurement of nursery school and kindergarten.
"" We want through better procurement support help
municipalities can set environmental and health requirements for municipal contracts. A special effort made to support municipalities to procure nontoxic to their kindergartens.

We also want Sweden to continue to push for additional efforts on the side of the climate negotiations. Global
coalition that Sweden has, and started, aimed at
reduce short-lived climate gases such as soot and methane in the atmosphere, will enhance its efforts. The pace of phasing out the countries' fossil fuel subsidies must increase. Likewise, more financial instruments and investment models reflect the gains
to act on climate change.

The EU must increase the pace when it comes to limiting the use or phasing out particularly hazardous substances such as endocrine disruptors, mercury and brominated flame retardants. It must also be easier to prohibit dangerous chemicals
group. An inquiry is currently the possibility of introducing new economic instruments on chemicals to
reduce the incidence of and risk of exposure and spread of environmentally hazardous and harmful substances from different groups,
such as clothing, toys, and consumer electronics.

"" We want Sweden to press for the EU in the near future making
decisions on climate and energy framework by 2030.

"" We want to introduce a tax on environmentally hazardous and harmful chemicals.

98

We build Sweden

We build Sweden

99

We should make better use of our waste and increase opportunities for
recovery. Improving data collection and recycling of waste lead
Also make sure that hazardous substances can be collected and cycles detoxified. The Alliance Government has raised the targets for collection
and recycling of packaging, paper and electronics
and tightened the requirements for households to have access to simple
and clear collection.

fish stocks should be viable and that without concern should
able to eat the fish landed here.
"" We want to improve the environmental monitoring of water and
marine environment and investing in a new research vessel.
"" We want to increase the proportion of marine protected areas.

"" We want to make even easier for households to submit
material recycling and collection,
particularly textiles, clothing and electronics.

LIVING WATER - CLEANER SEA
Sweden has significantly reduced emissions of nitrogen and phosphorus
the latest decenniet.- more than any other country around the Baltic Sea. The Alliance wants to continue to work for a clean Baltic Sea and
fresh waters throughout Sweden. We will also be a driving force in the marine environment work against eutrophication, against toxic
emissions and against littering, both regionally and internationally.
Measurement and monitoring of the environmental status of Swedish seas and
Water is necessary for us to acquire adequate knowledge of
the levels of harmful substances in fish and drinking water. The government has decided to focus specifically on marine protection,
has therefore committed itself to protecting and preserving the most valuable ten percent of the marine environment by the year 2020,
an increase of at least 570 000 hectares.
A good environment in our seas and water are also important for many
industries, such as tourism and fishing. Cod, eel and salmon are not threatened
only environmental problems but also by overfishing, migration, and marine debris. We want the Baltic and North Sea
100

We build Sweden

We build Sweden

101

DE green industries
GROWTH ENGINE

A policy
all of Sweden
We want the whole of Sweden should live. When people need to live and work in rural areas. Sweden's entire development, growth potential and employment opportunities should be
to be, and people and businesses across our country
given opportunities to grow and develop.
Sweden's population is increasing and many parts of the country experienced a positive population growth and increased attractiveness.
At the same time there are significant challenges, with growing disparities between cities, with strong private service sector, and small
towns that depend on a single or a few industrial
employer. Stagnation in these cities leads to cutbacks in regular activities such as health, education and care
but also to make people feel a lack of confidence in the future.
With a strengthened policy of job focus has these places, however a good position to perform well. The Alliance Government has consciously worked to improve the business environment, not
at least for companies in rural areas, and each municipality and region
have a responsibility to carry out the necessary efforts for an improved business climate. The general efforts at national
level jobs, education and to improve the business
need to be combined with regional growth efforts.

The Alliance believes it is important to use the vast resources
available in the Rural Development Programme to improve the conditions for growth and jobs in rural areas. Therefore,
the starting point for the period up to 2020 has been to medium
shall primarily be used to provide profitable and viable companies, active farmers and a modern rural.
Alliance government compensates for the EU budget cutbacks
by injecting an additional 2.8 billion.
"" We want to increase funding for rural development program
rural development, better environment and more jobs
throughout the country.
The forest is of great importance for the Swedish economy. Products
based on forest products account for over 50 percent of the
Swedish net exports. We believe there is potential to improve the forestry sector's ability to create more jobs and higher
growth throughout the country. The Alliance's forestry policy is based on two equally important goals, the production goal and the environmental goal.
Sustainable forest management, increased exports and new biobased
Products and services are important future areas. The forest
are important for biodiversity. The forest also provides opportunities
for recreation, tourism and contribute with other important values.
"" We want to establish a national forest programs.
Swedish food production will have good prospects. The Alliance Government has therefore appointed an inquiry
which will look at how competitiveness can be strengthened in Swedish
agriculture and horticulture. Meanwhile, the Swedish Agriculture

102

We build Sweden

We build Sweden

103

use a number of competitive advantages. Sweden has Europe's best
animal welfare, high environmental and infectious disease in the world.
The focus on "Sweden - the new culinary nation", which aims to
to lift the Swedish food production, and food exports, has contributed to the number
food companies have increased. Demand for safe and sustainable
produced food continues to increase. Food Processing is
a sector with a wide geographic spread. Thus, the industry can help create jobs in the country. The matbaserade
Tourism is also an important sector that can provide increased opportunities for more jobs. The Alliance wants to continue to develop the conditions for the Swedish countryside.
"" We want to continue to invest in Culinary Sweden
"" We want a national food strategy.
"" We want to extend VisitSweden focus on destination development and marketing of Sweden as
destinations.
"" We want to extend the investment in the project House with
history, dealing with the maintenance and development of
homesteads
In Sweden, animals must not prophylactic antibiotics. The
is something that happens in many other countries and contributing to
problems with multi-resistant bacteria. A problem
serious and urgent. Today it is used between 300-500 thousand tons
antibiotics per year worldwide. It is about two-thirds
to animals. In large part this is because the cows, pigs and chickens
medicated to compensate for animal welfare is poorer.

104

We build Sweden

"" We want to take an initiative for greater international cooperation and the commitment to reducing the use of antibiotics in health care and food production.
Regulations relating to companies in the primary and food production are largely common to the EU's internal market. It means that all national rules and requirements that go beyond the EU-wide legislation probably worsen
the competitive situation for Swedish companies. Therefore,
national, more far-reaching rules always be well reasoned and considered carefully. It may also be laws and rules
hitting unfair in various parts of the country and may be required
adapted to the conditions prevailing in remote and rural areas or in specific sectors. There are also claims that turns on a
unfairly against small businesses in rural areas. The understanding of
rural entrepreneurship needs to increase. Thus creating
we better conditions for viable enterprises and regional
development.
"" We want to work to improve animal welfare in the EU and
that common rules on animal welfare are complied with.
"" We want to identify national, more far-reaching rules
which controls the Swedish company. Swedish animal welfare legislation should not be covered.
"" We want to survey the national implementation of EU
food legislation to identify any barriers that distort competition for employment.
"" We want to give the commission the Agency to review alternative models for food control in order to strengthen dialogue elements and increasingly avoid subpoenas.
We build Sweden

105

"" We want the NFA's mission to the interests of consumers working for food security, probity in
food and healthy eating habits should be designed
so that businesses in the food sector is facilitated.
"" We want to conduct a survey of what government contacts food companies must have at regional
and municipal level in order to eventually reduce
regulatory burden on enterprises.

BETTER broadband and telephony
Access to broadband is critical for people to be
able to run a business, work and study at a distance. It also improves the level of service across the country. Alliance Government
has since 2007 invested about 2.2 billion in broadband deployment. Already, 99 percent of the population has access to 4G in their homes, making us by far the best in
Europe. Alliance Government's target is that 90 per cent of all households and firms will have access to broadband of
at least 100 Mbit / s in 2020.
"" We want to 2020 further invest 3.25 billion
SEK to build fast broadband in rural areas.
"" We want to introduce broadband coordinators and national
guidelines on information to the authorities of
to streamline the deployment of broadband.
Access to great mobile telephony is becoming increasingly important. Sweden need a mobile network with better geographical coverage and having
sufficient capacity when more people want to use mobile technology.
Alliance Government has implemented a range of measures to
improve mobile coverage, as the reformed legislation, för106

We build Sweden

improved information and greater consumer legislation. The
development, we want to strengthen further in the coming years
which will lead to even better opportunities for good mobile telephony and high-speed mobile broadband, especially in rural areas.
"" We want to improve the opportunities for mobile communications
throughout the country, including by freeing up space
on the so-called 700 MHz band.

ACCESS TO SERVICE
For people and businesses will want to live and work in full
Sweden, it is important to have access to an efficient,
basic service at a reasonable distance. This applies
authorities municipal and commercial services. In rural areas in particular, service solutions based on local
conditions and collaboration with business and civil society to be long-term and sustainable. The Alliance Government has also made investments in these. An inquiry
is now working on further measures to promote commercial
service.
"" We want to invest a further SEK 700 million in 2014
2020 to improve services in rural areas.
"" We want to support village shops and petrol stations, increasing accessibility to public services in rural areas, and improve the quality of life in the country, for example by providing
support to sports facilities and lighted trails and continue
coordinate efforts to increase access to local
service.

We build Sweden

107

"" We want to review the regulatory framework and increase coordination
between authorities and improve cooperation between
public and commercial stakeholders to achieve
a good public and commercial services in the country.
"" We want to examine the possibility of outsourcing agencies.

WILDLIFE AND HUNTING
In Sweden we have a great variety of species and viable wildlife populations. The opportunities that our nature offers, with recreation,
exercise and hunting, also implies a great responsibility to cultivate and
benefit from nature in a way that is sustainable. Wild game is
climate. Therefore, there may be reasons that we improve the opportunities for hunting and wild meat makes more accessible. Now implemented
Hunting an extensive investigation. The aim is a modern,
simple regulatory framework that meets a broad acceptance. To Alliance
Also take a firm grasp of how wildlife management should be organized in the state.
"" We want to collect wildlife management and hunting issues in a new agency.
"" We would consider introducing an exemption from authorization for the surveillance of the game, but with regard to the privacy aspect.

and species in the EU should be adapted to the different national circumstances.
"" We want to push the EU to change the Habitats Directive so that the classification of endangered animals and plants can better be settled in Sweden.
None of our prey species are endangered. Alliance Government has, based on extensive research, designed a new predator policy that allows a regionalized and accountable
management. Sweden meets its international obligations.
People living near the predators and game should be
and influence. Alliance predator policy allows for
a targeted selective hunting of wolves without affecting wolf favorable conservation status. Predator attacks on livestock
and pets can cause harm to the individual farmers and
leading to insecurity. We want to be able to pursue effectively controlled hunting, combined with the benefits to them
who get their domestic demolished and killed by predators.
"" We want to continue with targeted selective hunting of wolves.
"" We want to see the current levels of compensation to those who
get their domestic demolished and killed by predators.

"" We want to review the rules for handling weapons licenses in order to facilitate the hunters.
Wildlife management needs to be decentralized further - from
European level to the national level and from national to regional level. The regulatory framework for the protection of valuable habitats

108

We build Sweden

We build Sweden

109

and loved for who we are, not for what we achieve or
how we look. We learn to take into account, listen to others and take
care of each other. This is particularly important for children
who receive much of their care within the family.

A community
in the Community
One of society's great, but often hidden, assets are values
as trust and social community. Our society is supported
of people in the community. We live with ties to others and
with obligations to each other. Values ​​and norms are important
for the welfare and social networks that builds trust gives
better conditions for both human relations
as a functioning welfare system with joint funding. Sweden is still characterized by a high trust and great
involvement in civil society. Community and trust in society occurs in the family, among friends, workmates
and civil society in general. Of associations, congregations and
associations provides venues that will make Sweden
a secure country where people are seen and involved. Community and Trust creates meaning, participation and development.
The cultural and creative industries are growing, creating new jobs
and increase Sweden's attractiveness and competitiveness. The culture
should be accessible to everyone in Sweden. By touch and inspire culture contributes both to strengthen individual
people and to the development of society as a whole. Sports policy is a particular part of the policy to civil society. Sport builds communion between people and contribute
while to improved public health.

Good and secure childhood conditions is important for all children and
youth. It is location with good prospects for
families' freedom, economic security, time together,
choices in child care and gender
for ages. A challenge in community life is all about balance
between work and family life and the children's opportunities for
good relationship with both their parents. The role of parents for the child's security and development is central. Public sector role
is primarily to support and help. The Alliance wants to continue
assist and support parents in their everyday life by
simplify rules and improve family policy.
"" We want to remove the duty to notify the care of sick children
the same day as the child falls ill
"" We want to make it possible for parents to receive parental benefit for the whole acclimatization.
"" We want to give the other parent the right to compensation for
follow to maternal health.
"" We want to remove the notification for the family supplement for children
16 years of age.

Safeguard democracy
FAMILY
Families look different, but are essential for a safe society. IN
close relationships such as family, we can become, we watched, respekte110

We build Sweden

That we have the privilege of living in a democracy is the result of
previous generations of struggle. It is our duty to protect our
democracy and ensure that it survives also future
We build Sweden

111

generations. A high turnout is important for the legitimacy of democracy but the Alliance also want more citizens will
involved and engaged between elections. We live in a time
where some individuals and movements using threats and violence to
achieve political objectives. The Alliance is clear that this always
is unacceptable. Violent extremism must, in addition to
judicial interventions, met with preventive measures
and avhopparverksamhet. Countering recruitment to anti-democratic movements and radicalization is a priority
affair.
The Alliance Government has in recent years strengthened the protection against
discrimination, including through discrimination law
cover more grounds for discrimination and areas of society than before. The Alliance has taken many important steps to
strengthen Sweden's five national minorities, for example, work for
Roma Inclusion, and see that the work to promote minority identity, culture and language must continue. Work
for Sweden to be a society free from discrimination
must continue.
Strong and free media is essential for democracy. Public services will continue to strive for quality and relevance, while commercial media should have conditions to
contribute to diversity of supply. Independence of the media must
safeguarded. Sweden has a unique strong protection in the Constitution for the
free speech and this should be defended.

A strong civil society
The community is larger than the state. The trust between people
and confidence about the future, which is typical for our country
obtains much of its power from one of the world's strongest
civil societies. The starting point for the Alliance's policy is to
all individuals have the ability to grow and create their own context. Voluntary work has invaluable significance

112

We build Sweden

for a society that holds together. The government should give greater
space and better conditions for voluntary communities
that through commitment and responsibility to contribute to social development and welfare.
Civil society is based on people's will and commitment. People choose to devote their spare time to that which is
those closest to my heart. People's participation in communities and nonprofit organizations create meaning, participation and development. We want different ways to facilitate civil
society organizations to conduct their operations, to develop and thus contribute to the welfare and social cohesion. Civil society's independence needs to be strengthened and safeguarded so that associations, organizations, churches
or communities of independence can be preserved. The Alliance has
introduced a deduction for gifts to non-profit, social relief work. We wish to make further reforms to strengthen nonprofits to take advantage of their skills and capabilities.
"" We want to remove the application and annual fees for organizations applying for or accepted as
gåvomottagare to strengthen buoyant voluntary sectors.
"" We want to make it easier for civil society organizations to
participate in public procurement and has therefore created a
investigations with this purpose.
"" We want to make a broad review in order to reduce the administrative burden on civil society by removing
unnecessary regulatory obstacles, restrictions or
reduces the freedom of operations within civil society.
"" We want to increase support for faith communities in general, and
especially for preventive safety work to prevent attacks against government members or their
premises.
We build Sweden

113

SPORTS
Sport and physical activity are key to good public health. IN
Sweden sport we most in the whole EU. But even though there are too
many in our country who are limited by poor health, which in many
cases leads to both social and economic exclusion. The Alliance's sports policy therefore aims to create more opportunities
to sports for all people in Sweden. During the Alliance's governance, we have created a stable and long-term financing on the basis of the sports movement wishes.
"" We want to make a bet on sports and leisure facilities in rural areas under the Rural Development Programme.
The foundation of good health is placed at an early age. Sport is also
an important way to build community with others. Sport be
provide children and young joy. But we also see a social challenge in that children and young people to a greater extent than before
stop - or never starting - sports. We want all children and
young people the chance to find the joy of sport. Therefore,
it is important both to increase school sport and to encourage
voluntary sport outside school.
By "Sports Initiative" has children and youth sport added
500 million per year. We want municipalities to take more responsibility
to secure conditions for both girls and boys, as well as children and youth with special needs to be able to practice sport. Young LGBT people to participate in sports and
associations without facing prejudice and discrimination.

An accessible CULTURE
Culture should be a dynamic, challenging and independent
power with freedom as its foundation. Creativity, diversity
114

We build Sweden

and artistic quality will characterize a strong and free cultural life
thus can be at the forefront of new expressions, design,
media and interfaces.
Culture has an intrinsic value and are part of our common history. Heritage and cultural environment must be preserved, used and developed. For heritage must be alive and
passed on to future generations needs to be
accessible to all. Digitization offers new opportunities
to communicate and create interest in cultural heritage. Civil
society and individuals nonprofit commitment is
an important resource for a living cultural heritage.
"" We want to clarify the Education Act so it becomes clear that individual confessional segments, such as the singing of hymns, will be allowed.
This is to eliminate the uncertainty that found around
the ability of schools to have graduation in the church.
Children and young people to experience culture and grow through its own
creation. By including Creative School, children and
young face culture, which proved to be an important basis for
participation in culture as an adult. Early in life take part of
cultural experiences strengthens the knowledge and the formation and development
their curiosity and creativity.
The position of literature and the ability to read is fundamental to the formation, debate, and information on which
Because of our open society. In today's society it is enough
not being able to find information when needed, without knowledge
and education is a prerequisite for being able to orient themselves.
Everyone in Sweden, regardless of background and based
in each one's particular circumstances, be given the opportunity to develop good reading skills and have access to literature of high
quality. Literature is also a source of learning for
new Swedes.
We build Sweden

115

A strong voice in the world
Sweden will be a strong voice for peace, freedom and reconciliation.
We must promote democracy, human rights and sustainable
development and assert international law and equality. The goal is to help transform oppression to freedom, poverty
progress and waste of resources for sustainable development. We will promote transparency and trade as a way to more jobs and higher
growth but also as a tool for better understanding and
tolerance. And we will continue to be a country that takes responsibility for
refugees.

AN EFFECTIVE EU COOPERATION
CLOSE TO THE CITIZEN
Sweden will be an active part of a strong, united and transparent
European Union. We also have a dense and naturally cooperation with our Nordic neighbors, to be cared for.
We defend the freedom of movement within the EU. That people can
move to where the jobs are doing that more Europeans are going to work.
The free movement contributes to man the Swedish welfare sector and that our enterprises can grow. The European
cooperation means strengthening capacity to combat transnational crime. Trafficking, organized
theft gangs, drug trafficking and terrorism can be fought
more effectively in partnership. The climate challenge is global and
can only be solved by interdisciplinary collaborations.
The EU must focus even more clearly his work where collaboration
needed most - in order to solve common problems. The cooperation needs to be strengthened in some areas, but decisions
116

We build Sweden

better dealt with nationally, regionally or locally should not lie
at EU level. Further reforms are needed to make the EU more
transparent and efficient. We want to drive economic recovery in Europe by creating the conditions for more jobs
and increased growth as a basis for our prosperity, both in Sweden
and elsewhere in Europe. Sweden has much to contribute to
preventing future economic crises in Europe. At the EU level
we need to improve the single market - especially
as regards trade in services across borders and
through a better-functioning digital market - and open
up to free trade with developing countries and middle income countries. Sweden will continue to be a voice for free trade and
against protectionism in the EU. We want a Europe which, in any context safeguarding democracy and human rights.
A potential Swedish entry into the monetary union
preceded by a referendum. The timing of such a will
decided by Parliament. Should be a plebiscite
only after a broad discussion of the pros and cons again
examined in the light of, among other things, experiences and development
countries in and outside the euro area.
The European Union is the foundation for peace, security and
cooperation arrangements in Europe. We want an open Europe
that welcomes new members. By fulfilling the requirements
Membership and undertake a comprehensive reform agenda,
helping the new member states to strengthen peace and security in our part of the world. The common foreign and
Security must be strengthened, so that Europe becomes a strong
force for peace and a unified voice for freedom in the world. It's only
through a clear, united action we can end the unrest in Ukraine and supporting it in its reform process,
rapprochement with the EU. We want to expand the neighborhood policy, not
at least the Eastern Partnership. Sweden will continue to
actively participate in shaping this policy.

We build Sweden

117

INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION
In A GLOBALISED WORLD
Globalization is a powerful tool to break the poverty,
strengthen democracy and create prosperity. Sweden will continue
to stand up free trade and mobility. We will
continue to tear down trade barriers while guaranteeing consumer protection and the environment. Sweden must be a driving force for an ambitious transatlantic trade and investment agreements (TTIP)
between the EU and the US, which could enhance both the global economy and the Swedish business and consumer
trading opportunities.
We want Sweden and the EU will continue to promote democracy, human rights and the rule of law in an increasingly
globalized world where values ​​such as these are often questioned.
International law and the principle of territorial integrity of States
must continue to apply. By force or threat of force move
Borders is an unacceptable violation of international law.
We want to continue to strengthen cooperation and solidarity with
Nordic and Baltic neighbors and continue to work
together for increased mobility, continued integration and around
key challenges such as the environment and safety.
We are convinced that a freer and more democratic world
also become a more peaceful world. The United Nations will continue to be a cornerstone in Swedish foreign policy. United Nations together with the EU, OSCE and other international organizations continue to work actively to bring an end to war and
crises around the world, and promoting peace, freedom and reconciliation.
Sweden will continue to be ready to participate with military capabilities
in peacekeeping operations around the world led by the United Nations,
EU or NATO. When necessary, we will also be ready to impose smart sanctions on authoritarian regimes, but
not their citizens. We must also be prepared to adopt
broader economic sanctions when required.

118

We build Sweden

Sweden must push for peace and reconciliation in conflict-affected countries. It is state to resume the peace process in the Middle East to bring about a two-state solution.
Situation in Syria, Iraq and large parts of North Africa,
alarming. This also applies to more countries in the Great Lakes region and Central Africa. Sweden will contribute to concrete actions to stop violence and respect for fundamental
rights.
The people who live in dictatorship iron grip often end up in the shadow of the violent and acute crises. The Alliance wants to continue to support the democratic forces in countries
Cuba and Belarus.
The repression of ethnic and religious minorities are increasing and
people's freedom of religion is violated. Currently, Christians
among the most vulnerable groups in the world, with extensive persecution in the Middle East and parts of Africa and
Asia. Sweden is in the international context work
to protect vulnerable minorities. All people have equal value
fundamentally and expression and freedom of religion is central to
an open and free society. Sweden will continue to combat all forms of discrimination. Gender equality and women equally
rights is one of our most important democratic challenges. The same applies to LGBT rights wherever
they are challenged. The Internet is becoming increasingly important in more and more people
everyday. It creates huge opportunities, not least as a
tool for freedom of expression, but the wrong use may involve infringement, limitations and be used for repression. The
privacy and individual rights must be
safeguarded. We want Sweden to be a leading player in both the freedom to network security.
The Alliance also want to push for an ambitious policy of disarmament and for a world without nuclear weapons. Reducing and
eventually remove so-called Tactical nuclear weapons are especially important. We will
actively work against the further spread of weapons of mass destruction

We build Sweden

119

pen. In this context, it is particularly important to continue
efforts to bring about a solution to the nuclear issue in Iran.

EFFECTIVE ASSISTANCE IN SOLIDARITY
EXTERNAL
We have a moral responsibility to work to eradicate poverty
and oppression. That goal is far from being achieved. Sweden will
therefore, have an ambitious development policy and generous assistance. Alliance government since taking office in 2006 set aside 1
percent of gross national income to development aid. It makes us
one of the most generous donors in the world. The policy
remains. We are jointly responsible for the development of the world.

want to work to strengthen the humanitarian support in crises and
disasters.
The Alliance has concentrated Sweden's bilateral development cooperation - from 70 partner countries to around 30, with a focus on Africa, some countries in conflict and to
support for reform processes in Eastern Europe. It has created conditions for more focused interventions characterized by
better quality and more measurable results. Civil society organizations have an important role to play in development cooperation.
We want to deepen the dialogue with these parties and clarify
their role.

The world mobilization to achieve the UN Millennium Development Goals by 2015 has produced results. The proportion of people living in
Poverty has been halved and the objective of limiting malnutrition is within reach. But more needs to be done to achieve
objectives on women and children's health and on maternal and child mortality. We also want to put effort into developing new UN
development goals for the period after 2015. Sweden's policy for global
Development will then contribute to the new objectives.
Strengthening democracy and equality, and increase respect
Human rights should be the guiding values ​​of the
Swedish development assistance. Swedish assistance should support the freedom fighters
and strengthening freedom of expression. Our aid will improve the ability of poor people to benefit from economic
growth through improved access to education, health care and
more and better jobs. We also want that the aid will contribute to a
an improved environment, reduced climate impact and sustainable use of natural resources. Through support in crises, wars
and catastrophes, we will continue to save lives and alleviate suffering. We

120

We build Sweden

We build Sweden

121

"" We want to invest in a new air defense system, an increased number of submarines, anti-ship missile and one more Gripen aircraft.

A stronger defense

"" We want to increase the military presence in and around the island of Gotland,
including through enhanced training activities.
"" We want to expand the volume of personnel in the Home Guard.

Unrest in our part of the world has increased. The Russian military training operations in and over the Baltic Sea has increased over time
and showcases a more aggressive pattern. A new threshold was passed in March of this year when Russia invaded and occupied
Ukrainian territory. Alliance Government has already stated
2009 developments in Russia was disturbing. Situation
has since worsened, not least through Russia's aggressive actions in Ukraine.
NATO is a central organization for European security. The Alliance government has decided on a review of how Sweden
international defense cooperation in the Nordic countries, in
EU, NATO and other relevant fora looks. The purpose is also
to give suggestions on how these can be developed.
The Alliance's starting point is that we should have available units
which can be used where needed. The Alliance have announced long term investments in defense. We want to increase defense spending, both during the coming mandate and
eventually. The gradual increase means that the appropriations in 2024
will be more than 5.5 billion higher year on year
compared with previously calculated allocation. It gives the Armed Forces the potential to continue to work to strengthen
defense during the next term.
"" We want joint operations will be strengthened through
increased resources for training, personnel and incident preparedness.

122

We build Sweden

We build Sweden

123

Appendix table
REFORMS, FINANCIAL AND BUDGET REINFORCEMENTS In
RELATIVE TO 2014 Spring Fiscal Policy Bill
Billion

2015

2016

2017

2018

REFORMS









More knowledge in schools









Reduced groups of children in pre-school and
leisure centers etc.

0.43

0.43

0.43

0.05

Ten-year primary school and primary lift (including
smaller classes)

2.07

2.22

3.07

3.75

Nursing Lifting

0.14

0.14

0.14

0.14

Improve care and services for people with dementia

0.05

0.09

0.15

0.21

Improved cooperation between health care and
care

0.05

0.10

0.18

0.30

Enhanced quality of work and strengthened supervision
etc.

0.22

0.31

0.24

0.19

Meal Lift in elderly care and preschool

0.10

0.10

0.10

0.10

Coordination and availability billion in
care

1.00

1.00

1.00

1.00

Initiative against child and youth mental health
ill



0.25

0.35

0.40

Shorter waiting times in cancer care

0.50

0.50

0.50

0.50

Better environment - reduced emissions









Super green car premium, charging stations, etc.

0.48

0.40

0.19

0.19

Middle and high school (more mathematics teaching, summer school and homework
etc.)

0.52

0.77

1.14

1.13

Stronger Defense









Newcomers and Foreign-born students

0.27

0.41

0.53

0.48

Unit activities and preparedness

0.11

0.50

0.51

0.66

Expanded education and training
teachers, etc.

0.58

0.92

1.21

1.32

Investment in equipment systems

0.27



0.43

0.48

Enhanced career service reform

0.01

0.14

0.27

0.45

Total reform

9.3

10.7

12.4

13.3

Increased student loans and more places in the vocational education

0.71

0.42

0.29

0.17

Strengthened incentives and job chances
labor market









FINANCING AND BUDGET REINFORCEMENTS









Faster in action

0.52

0.43

0.30

0.14

Revenue increases









Lowering thresholds for young people (reduction of
social contributions for young people, etc.)

0.55

0.52

0.28

0.33

Reduced and abolished the deduction for pension savings

2.78

4.44

4.44

4.44

Better conditions for entrepreneurship across
land

Higher vehicle tax for light vehicles, etc.

1.55

1.55

1.55

1.55









Higher taxes on alcohol and tobacco

1.51

1.26

1.32

1.39

New high-cost for the sick

0.30

0.29

0.29

0.28

Strengthening rural program for local
service and broadband etc.

Abolition of group registration to VAT, etc.

0.52

0.42

0.45

0.48

0.40

0.50

0.40

0.40

Enhancing and developing welfare









Increased daytime and order fines, fee increases, etc.
0.17

0.40

0.66

0.66

Retirement Home Warranty and investment

0.05

0.25

0.45

0.60

Environment, climate and energy

0.91

0.91

0.88

124

We build Sweden

We build Sweden

0.38

125

Limits on premium cost at the start jobs

0.24

0.35

0.44

0.51

Spending cuts









Agencies

0.81

1.08

1.09

1.11

Abolition of age depreciation for new study borrowers

0.35

0.35

0.35

0.35

Armed Forces' international operations



0.50

0.50

0.50

Streamlining the work and development guarantee

0.45

0.19

0.09

0.01

Incentive payments and measures in older policy (funding within the frame)

0.61

0.98

1.26

1.44

Performance-linked health care guarantee (financing within the frame)

1.00

1.00

1.00

1.00

Contributions to Psychiatry (financing within the frame)



0.25

0.35

0.40

Total financing and budgetary reinforcements

10.4

13.7

14.4

14.7

Other (net)

-0.6

0.4

1.0

1.8

Effect of public finances

0.4

3.4

3.0

3.3

Effect capped expenditure

5.2

4.4

5.2

5.1

The table in this manifesto proposed reforms
and budget reinforcements to finance these reforms
and improve public finances.

126

We build Sweden

www.alliansen.se
