Vote for
school
The Liberal Party's election manifesto in 2014

Content
Content ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2
We want more ................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 3
Much has been achieved ................................................................................................................................................................... 3
The Liberal Party wants more .......................................................................................................................................................... 4
The future begins in the classroom ............................................................................................................................................................ 5
Feminism without socialism ............................................................................................................................................................................ 6
Jobs and enterprises safeguard welfare ................................................................................................................................................... 7
Sweden gets better with openness ........................................................................................................................................................ 9
A dignified elderly care equally for alla................................................................................................................. 10
The climate threat is on allvar............................................................................................................................................................................ 11
Yes to Europe and the world ...................................................................................................................................................................... 12
Defence and security ................................................................................................................................................................................ 13
Safety from crime ...................................................................................................................................................................................... 14
Vulnerable barn...................................................................................................................................................................................................... 15
A vibrant cultural life .................................................................................................................................................................................... 16

The Liberal Party

2

We want more
Sweden stands at an important crossroads. The jobs need more, women and
men become equal and integration is improved. School results in
Sweden must turn and industrial peace increase in the classrooms.
The climate challenge must be met with effective action. The
adverse developments in Russia has escalated and the country
aggression needs to be met with resolute countermeasures. Situation
in Eastern creates a great humanitarian suffering. In Europe threatened
basic liberal values.
In the autumn election is decided whether Sweden should face these challenges with a
government where the Liberal Party together with the Alliance continues to take
responsibility for the whole country or a divided opposition without
common responses will take over.
In over a hundred years the Liberal Party has contributed to a more open and freer
Sweden. Our work continues unabated. There is no lack of liberal
challenges in today's Sweden and in the world.

Much has been achieved
The Liberal Party has been in the Alliance government since 2006. We
have implemented reforms that have made it more worthwhile to work,
given more money in your wallet for many low- and
earners and stimulated more jobs in Sweden.
The Liberal Party and the Alliance represents the work line. Despite the economic crisis,
and a long recession has 250 000 more people a job to go
now than in 2006.
More people working means more resources for welfare. Healthcare, education
and care get more resources. There are more doctors, nurses,
health centers and pharmacies. Waiting lists have fallen and the quality of
care increased. We have significantly strengthened our resources to training and
research.
Lack of accessibility is now seen as discrimination. One
accessible society for persons with disabilities is
the foundation of human rights.
Parboendegaranti for the elderly have been introduced. We have conducted historical
investments in housing and infrastructure. We have raised the salary of many
teachers. Sweden's emissions of greenhouse gases. Real incomes
after tax rises sharply. Tax revenues does. Resources for
welfare rises both as a share of GDP and in SEK. To all this,
can be done simultaneously because the Swedish economy has been
relatively good growth despite the international financial crisis and recession.
As the global economy slowly improves, it is important
at a return to surplus in the public finances to cope
welfare-term challenges and be prepared to face a
recession in the future.
The Liberal Party

3

It's easy to forget how it was before. But it was not long
since it seriously discussed to abolish grades in
Swedish school or when a social democratic education minister shuddered when
The Liberal Party said it needed more order in the school. Then it was the
bullied - not the bully - who had to move and change schools. We have
turned the debate. Step by step we are gearing up knowledge of the school.
When the Social latest steered Sweden early retirement
140 people every day, even though many of them still could
work and support themselves with the independence and freedom of the
means. Now is not the question what contribution you should have but how
can contribute and be needed.
Anyone who wanted to come here and work and contribute to our common
Prosperity did not have a chance if the union said no. And the one who had
feverish young children a few years ago you could not buy Alvedon after
to the pharmacy closed.
What we have achieved through taking responsibility for the economy and the work line
can quickly be scattered. The school reforms we are implementing to strengthen
knowledge of the mission and raising the status of teachers can easily come off.
The biggest losers of this would be those who need school
the most. Efforts to improve wages in female-dominated
academic occupations and increase women's entrepreneurship can be defeated.
The resources for our young, sick and elderly are threatened by the Red-Green
parties' policies. Reduced working hours, the sabbatical year and zero growth are few
proposals that would drastically reduce opportunities for joint
welfare. Increased employer contributions for young people, reduced or removed
Rut-forwards and increased taxes on transport will not lead to
new businesses or new jobs.
The opposition claims that they raise taxes on jobs to bet on
welfare. But tax increases will not lead to long-term
higher tax revenues. In reality, the money will go to
extended benefits system, leading to fewer jobs and reduce our
common resources for welfare.

The Liberal Party wants more
The Liberal Party wants more. We work together in the campaign to form
government with Moderate Party, the Centre Party and
The Christian Democrats within the Alliance for Sweden.
The Liberal Party's goal is that Sweden will continue to develop in Liberal
direction. The best way to achieve this goal is through a stronger
liberal party and a re-election alliance government. Just as we strengthen
Sweden for the future.
This manifesto contains the Liberal Party's priorities
reform mandate period 2014-2018.

The Liberal Party

4

The future begins
classroom
Knowledge is the key factor to strengthen each person
life chances. In short, class trip starts in the classroom. Therefore, we want
have a school policy that gives all students the chance to succeed.
Sweden should be a leading knowledge nation, for each individual's sake
and for the country's competitiveness. Knowledge and education needs
valued higher, and Sweden will aim for an education system in
world class.
The school is currently undergoing the biggest change since the reform
folkskolans introduction in the 1840s, but it takes time to reverse
development. We will once again achieve world class we must hold on
course and do more to focus on literacy in school, increasing
studieron and raise the status of the teaching profession. Every student, every day meet
of high ambitions and help to achieve the ambitious targets based on their
own conditions.
The education system should provide good opportunities for development and new
routes. Adult education should give people new chances.
Higher education must be characterized by quality and both form and
training for future needs. There should be good economic
opportunities to study at an academic level. Research needs
competitive and long-term conditions.
•

Among the world's top ten countries in ten years. Within ten years, Sweden
be one of the world's top ten countries in the international
knowledge assessments carried out. Last we lay on place 38
the large PISA survey.

•

Nationalize school.
school to provide all students with a good education should
State to take back responsibility for the school. The country's 290 municipalities
do not have the skills to independently improve the respective school system.

•

Teachers have Sweden's most important profession. This should be seen in
pay packet. We need more teachers first so that skilled
teachers should be rewarded.

•

Security and study.
Adults study peace at school must have powers
and take responsibility for creating order, study peace and security. The
may not be any doubt that it is the teacher who decides in
classroom. At secondary school and in secondary schools should be
permissible for schools to introduce a written order review.

•

The aid will come early. Students should quickly get the help they
needs and therefore we want to have a Primary Lifting with smaller classes
in primary schools and more specialist teachers. Primary will be ten years and
should start school at age six. Ratings will be given from year
four.

The Liberal Party

5

•

More support to those who need it most. All students should receive good
opportunities to succeed in school. Therefore, all schools offer
homework help and summer school. Newly arrived pupils should have read more
Swedish school.

•

Higher quality in higher education. University teachers must have
time to form, not only educate their students. This requires
quality assessments and increased resources for training
have high demand and high academic quality.

•

Opt for the best researchers. The most successful researchers
should get more resources. Efforts should also be made on talent
young researchers and the infrastructure for basic research
world class. Free basic research and the high
the research will be protected.

Feminism without socialism
Sweden is an egalitarian country. Although we have come a long way
compared with other countries, but there are still traditions
structures that restrict individual freedom.
In today's Sweden separates the 3.6 million in lifetime earnings
between an average man and an average woman, women
charge three times more days of parental leave than men, traditionally
female-dominated occupations are characterized by lower wages than traditionally
male occupations, and women are at far greater risk of suffering serious
violence in the home. Tens of thousands of girls and boys, men and
women living with honor-related violence and oppression. Every fourth 15årig boy leave primary school without being able to read properly.
We assume these facts, see how they affect individuals, see
structures behind and work for change. It is this that is
Liberal feminism. Liberals has feminist initiative in more than
a hundred years, and we intend to continue to do so.
•

An equal parenting.
parenting Parental insurance must become more
gender. The Liberal Party wants to earmark a third month in either
parent. The gender equality bonus will be strengthened.
The childcare allowance will be abolished.

•

Career Services in female-dominated occupations. The Liberal Party wants to add a
Equality billion of career services for preschool teachers,
midwives and specialist nurses, and expand
system with first teacher in school.

•

Close the pay gap between women and men. All pay discrimination
must be combated. Salary Surveys should be done every year.

•

Stop violence against women. Men's violence and oppression against
women is the most extreme expression of the vulnerability of women and
has its basis in the view of gender, power and sexuality. All forms of

The Liberal Party

6

violence in relationships and gender-based violence must be prevented.
The Liberal Party wants women's shelters to receive long-term funding,
to work against violence should be a mandatory part of
the basic education for all who encounter victims and to men
with contact ban more often to have electronic tagging. Men who commit
violence against women should be punished harder. Modern
travel restrictions should be one possible sanction.
•

Equality Lift school. Both teachers and school leaders need
tools to work for increased equality. It may e.g.
shop how best to work to prevent gender norms. The
also need special initiatives to improve boys'
reading comprehension.

•

More women in publicly owned company boards. Politicians must
lead by example and set goals for
women in the municipal, county-owned and
State boards of directors.

•

Freedom of choice in welfare. Of course you should be able to continue to start
and running a business also in the welfare sector. The freedom to choose care
is also freedom for nurses, nursing assistants and doctors
choose employers and negotiate salary and terms of employment.

•

Keep RUT. RUT deduction has been made black and white jobs created
secure employment, particularly for women.

Jobs and business safeguards
welfare
The Alliance's jobs policy produces results. Since the government took office,
the number of employed increased by over 250 000 people, and the proportion
employed persons of working age increased, despite the fact that we have gone through a
international recession. More people working means that the economy grows,
there will be more money in your own wallet and resources to the joint
welfare.
We have opened new routes into the labor market. The employer's contribution
Young has been lowered. Along with the RUT deduction and the cuts
Restaurant VAT, this has offered thousands of young gateway
to the labor market. We need to continue to facilitate for more jobs
that does not require formal knowledge. If taxes are increased, as
the opposition now wants to disappear, new jobs and young workers
lose their jobs.
The jobs must continue to be more. In the alliance, we have set a target of
over five million people should have a job by 2020,
mean over 350 000 more employed than today. It will require
continued job reforms in many areas.
The Liberal Party

7

Swedish labor market must become better at utilizing all
people's skills. Today, many foreign-born, young, older
and people with disabilities are too often hard to get a job.
Globalization has brought prosperity lifting of several billion
people and large profits for Sweden. But it also means
adjustment requirements. Competition has become tougher. There is today
extra importance to policies that support the wealth formation
forces. Sweden's prosperity is built by enterprising and
hardworking people. Through more and growing companies, we
secure general welfare.
•

Shielding tax will be removed. It pays to work, train
and take responsibility. The Liberal Party wants to lower marginal tax rates. The
first tax cuts to be made when the space available is to take
off tax surcharge.

•

Opt for apprentices. High school students should be able to learn a profession
a work instead of school. Therefore apprenticeship training,
where employers are taking a big responsibility to be a natural alternative
for young people to learn a trade. The state should encourage
apprentice positions involving the apprentice receives a salary for the
time spent at the workplace.

•

Modernising labor law. Priority rules in the Act
Employment should be based on competence, not seniority.
In combination with this should be taken in the funds to be raised, so that a
Swedish equivalent of the Danish flexicurity system is created.
Employers should also allocate more resources for conversion.

•

Faced with a general and state unemployment insurance. Too many
stands today without protection against unemployment. Therefore a state
unemployment insurance that covers all.

•

Take advantage of everyone's skills. Older people should have
greater opportunity to continue their careers longer than today. Persons
with disabilities should have better opportunities for activity,
work and support themselves.

•

Skip create
create simple entry level positions. The thresholds for
the labor market for young people and recent immigrants with low
education has been reduced. Halved arbetsgivaragift for young, Rutavdrag and lower VAT for restaurants has created 40,000 new jobs.
These reforms should be preserved.

•

More housing is needed for a well-functioning labor market. The
need simpler rules, less red tape and shorter planning processes
for the construction to get started. Today's regulation hampers
competition in the construction sector and lead to higher costs.

•

Develop ITIT infrastructure throughout the country. Sweden should be a
pioneer in IT services, and the state should take responsibility
to help fund broadband expansion in rural areas.

The Liberal Party

8

•

Long-term ownership of welfare. We say yes to choice and
private options but no short-term owners. It should be equally
conditions and equally high demands on private and public providers.

Sweden gets better
Openness
Sweden shall have a joint and several refugee policy and safeguard the right of asylum.
The Liberal Party also welcomes people who want to work in our country.
Key in the Swedish society is work, earn a living and
Swedish skills.
Since 2006, over 180,000 foreign-born people found jobs. However, although
moving in the right direction, remain major challenges. It takes
still too long for those born abroad to enter the job.
Sweden must become better able to take advantage of all the skills
people bring to our country.
The Liberal Party stands up for an open and tolerant Sweden. We take the fight
against racism, xenophobia and discrimination seriously. The
important is where a man wants his future, not where she
comes.
The Liberal Party has been in government introduced a clear job line
means that the exclusion has decreased since 2006. Considerably more
reading now Swedish for Immigrants (SFI) and more finishes with SFI
passing grades. Several efforts to combat racism,
xenophobia and discrimination have been implemented.
•

The continued focus on jobs and Swedish language
language.
et SFI should be lifted into the
the regular municipal adult education and vocational Swedish is to be built
out. Validation will be improved and faster than today.
Additional higher education programs for graduates to
expanded.

•

Strengthen citizenship. Basic Swedish skills and
participation in education about how Swedish society works
shall be required for citizenship.

•

Solidary refugee policy. The difficult conflicts in the world drives
many displaced and the Liberal Party stands up for Sweden now and in
the future will be a country that gives refugees a safe haven. It is
deplorable that many countries in Europe betrays its charitable
responsibility. In the EU, Sweden will work to reform visa policy
to create legal avenues hit for asylum seekers.

•

The asylum process. We care also about those who suffer
personal persecution, forced to flee because of his political
beliefs, ethnicity, religion, gender, sexuality or gender identity.
For them, the asylum process is quality assured. Too high

The Liberal Party

9

evidentiary threatens the right of refugees to gain protection. A system for
evaluate expulsion decisions, risk assessments should be established.
•

Yes to labor migration.
The system of labor
labor migration gives people the opportunity to get to
Sweden to work. Foreign workers are an asset to the
Swedish labor market and the opportunities to immigrate to
Sweden to work, we should safeguard. If cheating occurs
permits will be revoked.

•

Break exclusion - continued lifting of vulnerable districts. In a number of
vulnerable housing in Sweden exclusion entrenched.
To overcome exclusion requires additional investment in schools
vulnerable areas, summer jobs for young people and
efforts to right the economy function. In these neighborhoods
there should be more present and visible police officers. More
municipalities should also follow the Alliance in Stockholm and move
municipal administrations to vulnerable areas.

•

Personal responsibility and low thresholds to the labor market. One
flexible labor market with low thresholds means extra for
those who are new in Sweden. Newcomers should have the same responsibilities as
other job seekers to take the offered job. The costs of
hiring will not increase.

A dignified elder care
care equally to all
We are fighting for a dignified elderly care and a society where
individuals' knowledge, regardless of their age, are utilized. As
Liberals we know that all people are different. This also applies when we become
older.
Sweden will offer a high-quality health care that is
patient, safe, accessible, equitable and adapted to each individual
needs. Access to care and treatment can now differ
the unacceptably between men and women, between rich and
poor and between different parts of the country. New knowledge and new
technology can result in increased costs but also entails new
opportunities to develop better healthcare and care and to
better engage individuals in their own health and wellbeing.
We who believe in freedom of choice must also be the strongest critics
of poorly run businesses, whether operated by a municipality,
a county, a region or a business. The requirements should be high and
supervising effective for all kinds of activities.

The Liberal Party

10

•

Strengthen the empowerment of citizens.
empowerment. Self determination is as important
regardless of age. Freedom of choice in elderly care to apply
throughout the country.

•

Build more housing for the elderly. We need more housing
for the elderly with both large and small needs
care. The oldest should be allowed to move into nursing homes without
means test.

•

Their careers
Career Services for nurses.
nurses. Education, responsibility and
experience will pay off - even nurses should have greater
opportunities to pursue careers and higher pay. We want to introduce a
systems specialist nurses and midwives
corresponding to the first teacher in the school.

•

More national coordination and control of health care. It strengthens
equivalence, freedom of choice and availability, and improve
care facilities for rare diseases.

•

People should receive care in time, and time in care. The Government's work
to reduce waiting times through the care guarantee and kömiljard have
produced clear results. We want to continue to use and develop
kömiljarden to get the county councils to reduce waiting times in health care.

The climate threat is serious
Liberal environmental policy is about accountability, based on knowledge and
market economic thinking. Growth is needed if we are to
meet environmental challenges. Through research and innovations
many environmental problems are solved. A liberal policy on the environment contributes to the
easier for people to take responsibility, not to micromanage their
everyday. We start from the precautionary principle and the principle that the
polluter should pay.
Climate change is the greatest threat to the environment. But
humanity is facing more global and local challenges. The
is for instance if depletion of biodiversity,
lack of clean water and the spread of dangerous chemicals. The state of the
The Baltic Sea and the North Sea is serious.
Sweden is a small country, but also an important player in climate and
environmental policy. Sweden must show leadership and take responsibility for concrete
results of international environmental efforts. The EU is our most important
forums.
There is a potential to continue to expand renewable energy in
Sweden, but at the same time, nuclear power is important climate-neutral
electricity generation. To phase out nuclear power jeopardizes climate policy and
means increased carbon dioxide emissions. It would also have far-reaching
impact on electricity prices and welfare.

The Liberal Party

11

Sweden is the country in Europe that urbanising rapidly. It makes great
demands for sustainable urban development for good accommodation and clean air
and a clearer focus on sustainable transport.
•

Sweden should be a role model and a driving
driving force in
climate work. Through international and general economic
instruments, such as the carbon tax and emissions trading,
can climate adaptation take place while the jobs and welfare
safeguarded.

•

Nuclear power is important climate-neutral electricity generation.
electricity generation. New
nuclear reactors that meet high safety requirements
built in Sweden.

•

Construction of wind power in the right places. Wind power will be concentrated
to already exploited areas and sites with relatively low
values ​​of conservation, heritage and recreation.

•

Modernize hydropower. Hydropower can provide more energy and
damaging the environment less through technology development and
efficiency, not through increased exploitation.

•

Raise ambitions to protect biodiversity. The
needed more contiguous protected areas both on land
and in water, such as marine reserves.

•

Sweden must be a driving force in the marine environment work. Taxes
on fertilizers should be reinstated. Sweden will contribute more to
save the Baltic Sea from eutrophication and keep down emissions
cadmium.

•

Away with dangerous chemicals. European
chemicals legislation needs to be tightened, paying particular attention
children and young people's sensitivity as well as to the overall impact when
several different chemicals interact.

•

Invest in climate-smart
climate-friendly transport. Renovate and expand
railway and invest in high-speed trains. Build
public transport in urban areas, ease of electric vehicles and create safe
conditions for cycling. A robust rail system and well
developed public transport system is a prerequisite for a functioning
labor market and contribute to climate-friendly transport.

Yes to Europe and the world
Every human being has the right to live in freedom. Sweden will therefore be a
voice for global freedom and solidarity.
EU gives us the opportunity to solve cross-border problems, safeguarding
democracy and promote freedom, facilitating economic development,
improve the environment, promote human rights and combat
crime. Cooperation in Europe makes the individual freer, richer Sweden
and our world safer. Sweden should participate fully in the European
The Liberal Party

12

cooperation. After a Yes vote in a referendum and when a robust
framework is in place and enforced, Sweden will introduce the euro as
value.
It was through exports, trade and market economy reforms
by Sweden in the 1800s began the journey to prosperity. In the same
way makes free trade and investment that hundreds of millions
people in recent years has lifted itself out of poverty. We want to continue to take
remove trade barriers and tear tariff walls. That would mean the most to the
poorest countries, which are currently excluded from many
markets in the rich world.
•

Yes to Europe. The Liberal Party is Sweden's most pro-European party
and continues to work to Sweden to belong to the EU core.

•

Deepening the EU's foreign policy cooperation. Sweden should be a
driving force in the EU's Common Foreign and Security Policy
thereby strengthening our influence in the global arena.

•

Respect for human rights need to be strengthened in
EU - countries. The EU should report annually on the situation of
EU
Human Rights in each member and candidate country. EU countries that violate human rights should be punished
economically and politically.

•

Support for democratization. Sweden is to be a voice for global
freedom and provide support for the brave people who seem
democracy in the world's remaining dictatorships. Sweden should not
sell arms to dictatorships.

•

Increased protection for minorities. Anti-Semitism, Islamophobia,
antiziganism, hatred toward Christians and stamping of minorities
unacceptable and can never be tolerated. Sweden will work
internationally for strengthening the protection of minorities.

•

Free trade and the market for global development. Free trade
and the abolition of trade barriers giving the poor the opportunity to
develop economically. We want to establish a new global
trade agreements. A free trade agreement between the EU and US is desirable
as it would provide more jobs and growth on both sides of
Atlantic.

•

An effective and generous assistance. We cherish per cent target in
aid that will go to fighting poverty and promoting
democracy. Women's rights must be central to development assistance.

Defence and security
Security policy developments in our region is troubling.
Russia becomes increasingly authoritarian, repression against dissidents increases
and a comprehensive military rearmament in progress. The aggression against
Ukraine and the annexation of the Crimea is unacceptable acts
The Liberal Party

13

has consequences for our and the outside world's view on Russia and its
leadership.
The Defence of Sweden must be strengthened. Baltic Sea, including Gotland
the most central military arena in our neighborhood.
On their own can not cope Sweden a sustainable defense against a
attacking power. Therefore, both the renovation of the
Swedish Armed Forces and the Swedish membership in NATO. When we contribute
also to the common European security together with
democracies in our neighborhood as well as globally.
•

Strengthen Sweden's defense. Ability to defend Sweden
the territory and its inhabitants will be the Armed Forces
The main task. To fulfill this task needs resources
acting in, on and over the Baltic Sea to be strengthened. Gotland is a
strategic island that both should be defended and used to
defend our borders.

•

Sweden should join NATO during the upcoming
four-year period.
four-year period. Only through membership, we can
along with other countries that share our values, protect
peace and security in our neighborhood as well as globally.

Safety from crime
Sweden to be a safe country to live in. It is a liberal
core mission to reduce crime and increase safety. Already
vulnerable people foremost victims of crime.
The most important work is the prevention of crime, through a good
policy work, school and parental involvement, and against social
vulnerability. But the judicial system is needed to ensure that things
is right when it still went wrong.
Young people who commit crimes must be countered by early and clear
action, and an alternative to a criminal life. If the first
crime, also will be the last, young people can be saved from a
criminal court which destroys both their own and others' lives.
Today's serious organized crime operates internationally and
dealing with both drugs, weapons and people. To stop
those police must also cooperate across borders.
The Liberal Party does not believe that longer sentences generally is the solution of
crime. However, there are some types of crime which sanctions should
sharpened, as for repeat offenders, the most serious violent crimes and
for organized crime. We also want to reduce the so-called
amount of the discount, which means that the courts lowers it
aggregate punishment for those who committed many crimes.
Anyone who becomes addicted to drugs in any form loses its freedom.
Therefore, zero tolerance prevail against drugs at all levels of management.
The Liberal Party

14

The prohibition against using the drug to be retained. A well-developed
and knowledge-based substance abuse treatment is an essential part of a liberal
alcohol and drug policy.
•

Present and visible policing.
Police. The police should be locally rooted, in
the city, in the residential area, in the countryside. Let the police be right
officers with the tools they need. Administrative work should
operated by others.

•Focus on youth crime. To help at-risk youth
need more early intervention and closer collaboration between the police,
schools and social services.

•

European cooperation against crime. Ahead of a European FBI and strengthening
European cooperation against serious organized
crime that operate across the EU.

•

Stronger protection
protection against sexual offenses and assault. Sexual offenses Act
needs to be supplemented with a consent rule and protection
improved for those who are abused by someone close.
Continue to develop actions against honor-related violence.

•

To safeguard privacy.
integrity. Creating an overall
integrity agency and evaluate the integrity of sensitive
legislation.

•

Belts penalties for the most serious violent crimes. Reduce the scope
the amount of discount and early release. Repeat offenders be
heavily penalized. Men who commit violent crimes against women
heavily penalized.

Vulnerable children
Those who need help the most are often those who heard the least. That's why
We in the Liberal Party often uses the phrase "the forgotten Sweden".
In the forgotten Sweden are children and young people in distress at home
and need protection and support. When parents are not adequate, then
society should ensure that the child receives the security, the protection and
care that every child has a right to. Today, there are serious shortcomings in
the safety net.
In the forgotten Sweden are also young people who are far from
labor and where regular education or
labor market initiatives are not enough.
•

Make UNCRC into law. There are still
weaknesses in the Swedish legislation which could be corrected if
CRC was made to Swedish law. This applies, for example,
every child's right to be heard.

•

Better coordination of resources to vulnerable children. Too many
young people who are ill or have mental health problems suffer yet

The Liberal Party

15

once due to lack of coordination of municipal and
regional efforts. Increased coordination of social services,
school health and child psychiatry necessary for more people to get right
support.
•

Faster reaction of children taken hold. Children
society has taken over responsibility for the need to get more active support
and help the child deviates from the location of social services
decided on. Social services and the police must take greater and
especially active responsibility to the rapidly be returned to
Social Services.

•

Shorter custody disputes. In custody disputes are not unusual
with several years of investigation about who and what forms that apply
for each child stay and responsibility should lie. It is unreasonable length
time for a child when the parents do not agree. A requirement is that a
custody investigation should be completed within 6 months.

•

Strong family homes. Support and education to families
which accept children who can no longer live at home must
improved. More foster children should be able to get their
foster parents as guardians.

•

Let social demands. When a child is suspected to suffer harm, should
social services have the right to demand that the family receives help and
support, even if the parents do not want. It should not be like today need
go so far that the child needs mental care.

•

School is important. For placed and cared for children
school often determine what happens later in life. They will
guaranteed all the support needed to complete the program.
Tailored interventions and special education is essential
investment in the child's future.

•

Municipal summer jobs for more young people.
young. Municipalities should offer
all young people over 15 years a summer job for them to get test
on the conditions of working life. A particularly important situation is that the vulnerable
areas with high exclusion and for young people who risk
leave secondary school without complete grades.

A vibrant cultural life
Thought and word freedom is the foundation of a liberal cultural policy
An open society needs to literature, art and other cultural
expression that provokes and challenges. Artistic freedom should
safeguarded. The liberal cultural policy job is not to control the culture,
but to improve conditions for artistic creativity
and the individual's formation.
It is a classic liberal mission to strengthen the individual's ability to
take control over their own lives. Culture in its various forms of expression
The Liberal Party

16

means that you get to know both yourself and others that society.
Therefore, culture is a democratic right. It is not enough to
Knowing where to find information, one must also have your own
the backbone of knowledge that allows one to orient themselves in the world of
claims, formation simply.
•

Reading in focus. To stimulate reading about culture,
democracy and equality. Sodas Raise Ornamental must reduce and
reading a priority in all school stages. All students should have
access to a school library.

•

More culture to children and young people. Culture Creative Schools initiative
must be safeguarded. The conditions for music and art schools receive
a national center to be examined.

•

Growth in culture. The place of culture in society is strengthened and its
independently from political decisions increases when worn by many. The
should be investigated for external financing to culture can be stimulated
by deductions for donations in the same way that currently applies to
some NGOs and research. Cultural policy should
aim to take more part of the culture that has been published
financing.

•

TV TV license in its present form should be abolished. New one
financing of public service media should safeguard the airlines'
independence.

•

More haven writer. An increased number of asylum writer and
sanctuary housing need across the country. Other art forms will
Also included in the refuge system.

•

Making cultural heritage accessible. The cultural heritage in Sweden,
a part of humanity's common heritage and must be kept
available for future generations. The museums role
educational institutions and their links to research should
strengthened.

The Liberal Party

17
