FreedomCommunityThe Christian DemocratsElection Manifesto20141  www.kristdemokraterna.seForeword You hold The Christian Democrats Election Manifesto in your hand. The is  where promise to  you  as voters,  as clear shows which questions we priority maximum  during upcoming term of office, years 2014-2018. You  get here clear clearance  about what  one vote on The Christian Democrats means, and which questions we guaranteed  comes to drive in municipalities, region / county and on national level. Certain of proposals in  where manifested means costs for State, county and municipalities.  One overall  Case for The Christian Democrats is  order and out in state finances and  one Economic in balance. We takes responsibility and  comes see to to proposals is full out funded or performed  when economy so Allow and the is  one reform. The Christian Democrats  comes likely not get own majority, but we has found to we  can co and in office has we proved to we  can  come far with good Arguments, strong commitment and knowledge. The bigger confidence we  get, the bigger becomes  our strength and potential for us to achievement  our policy. Now hope we to you  want give us your confidence! This Election Manifesto is Adopted of The Christian Democrats party executive.  Stockholm August 2014 Göran Hägglund party leader 2  Content FREEDOM AND COMMUNITY ........................................................................................................................ 4 FAMILY RÖST.......................................................................................................................................... 5 Our proposals for a child- and family-friendly Sweden: .......................................................................................................... 5 SWEDEN knowledge economy ................................................................................................................ 7 Our proposals for a better skola:........................................................................................................................................... 8 CENTURY HEALTH CARE REFORM FOR EQUAL TREATMENT ............................................ ........... 8 Our proposals for a more equitable sjukvård:.............................................................................................................................. 9 WELFARE AND DIGNITY OF OLDER ............................................. ................................ 11 Our proposals for a dignified åldrande:.................................................................................................................................. 11 EQUALITY WITHOUT KVOTERING...................................................................................................... 12 Our proposals for a more equal Sweden: ........................................................................................................................... 13 COMMUNITY AND SAMMANHÅLLNING................................................................................................ 14 Our proposals for voluntary, gemenskap:......................................................................................................................... 14 WARMING THE BUSINESS FOR MORE JOBS ............................................. ...................................... 15 Our proposals for more companies and more jobs: ............................................................................................................................ 15 A HOME FOR EVERYONE ...................................................................................................................................... 16 Our proposals for more bostäder:............................................................................................................................................. 17 Legal policy FOR SECURITY AND TRUST ............................................. ........................................ 18 Our proposals for fewer crimes: ................................................................................................................................................ 18 RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE .......................................................................................................... 19 Our proposals for a better environment: ......................................................................................................................................... 19 SAFETY IN AN UNCERTAIN TID...................................................................................................................20 Our proposals for increased national säkerhet:............................................................................................................................ 21 COHESION OF GRÄNSERNA.............................................................................................. 21  Our proposals for solidarity over gränser:.............................................................................................................................. 22 3  Freedom and Community The Christian Democrats  want act for  one Society there each person given  conditions to shape his own Life and achievement his full potential. The is no one  make in loneliness, we is all dependent of Community for to developed  as persons. Freedom and possibility to shape our own Life is always host to defend. But in  one time  as often characterized of shortsightednessand selfishness is the  where to remind  about to freedom requires responsibility - for our own life, but also for others. Trust, Cohesion and Common values is  where society large Hidden assets. The is assets  as not  can dictated forward  by political decisions, they growing forward and administered in families, in meetings between people; in Churches and communities, in sports clubs, on workplaces - yes, there People met and together work for Common  Case. One challenge  as now Tone forward is to different groups  liver his Life all more separated from  each other. Wedges Exploded in in social community. Safety Community threatened and polarization risk to increase, which promotes political forces  as set group against group.  We  want build  one Sweden  as hold together. Where not group is against group. For to hold together Sweden is the civil Society indispensable. We  believe on human force.  Because required venues for People with different  background and the required time for Community. The required less of political distrust against people; families and the civil Society own ability.  Freedom, wealth and security in Sweden is us not given of Nature, and  can not is for abandoned. The build on  commonly Work, on improvement, entrepreneurship, effort, responsibility and stewardship. That mother and pine for care  about the rising generation is  one  long term work for to build  one safe; prosperous and ex society, also in future.  One good Society built not only on work. The required  one insight  about they basic values significance and  about politics assignment to protect life, Health knowledge, truth, freedom and  one Sustainable environment. The required also time for relationships and time for Community. We  want act for  one Society  as joins freedom with Community and Social responsibility.  One Society built on  one ethics and on valuations  as hold of time - responsibility; stewardship; honesty, moderation and humanity.   4  Family voice Family is  one basic Community  as  when the works good donate security and stability in one constant changing environment. Child  looks different out all has they - regardless form - same significant role. Is the families confident gives they child good  conditions to clear life different challenges. Children upbringing  affect whole its Development - both Economic and socially.  One important provided for to  one family be act is to all respecting  certain basic values as Equality and respect for each human integrity.  One another is to family not works as  one closed unit without rather  as  one base for  one further community involvement. Although  about development in Sweden on they Most Areas goes in right direction so feel our child and Young not so good  as they on surface and material has it. Economically  get they Most child the better, but rootlessness, anxiety; Mental ill and lack future is living for too many. School results Flag and many Young has difficult to get job.  We considers to child and youth need and Rights be be basis for how family policy and childcare designed. Children  need time and be seen. Preschool and childcare be face each child need of safe care, stimulus, play, Community and development.  For ages be to  choose the childcare  as is best for their children, and to find  one balance between work and family life. IN all for high degree missing  one children's perspective in the political decision-making. Towards  our syn on family and its basic function in Society is political forces  as  want control parents selection and stifle family freedom  by to do the dependent of the public. We is  one counterbalanced against this. We  want do CRC to Swedish Law, family safe policy, support - not control -  for ages and simplification in families everyday.  Our proposals for a child- and family-friendly Sweden: Enhance aid to Economic weak Families with Children  We  want continue to  prioritize they families  as  liver in Economic vulnerability  by to raising children part in housing allowance. Reduce children's groups size in preschool - max 12 child in toddlers groups Toddler groups in preschool is in day all for big. The Christian Democrats  comes in its municipalities act for to no toddlers groups be be bigger than 12 child per group. For to get more Resources to preschool in purpose to decrease children's groups  want we  because do the allowed for municipalities to raising Maxtaxa with max 100 kr for first child for Household with revenue of 42 000 SEK per month. Addition  want we to municipalities and State contributes so to total 1.4 billion SEK  can charged 5  for to decrease children's groups size. Ceiling in Maxtaxa should also Indexed so to preschool not eroded on Resources of time. 6   Reduce children's groups size in recreational activities Groups of children on recreational has grown vigorously and staffing reduced significantly. From ca 18 child in beginning of - 1980s to 40.4 child years In 2013. We  want applying same model  as  where  proposal for preschool and let municipalities  as has  one Concrete plane for to decrease children's groups raising Maxtaxa for recreational activities with max 100 kr for first child for Household with revenue of 42 000 SEK per month. Ceiling in Maxtaxa should also Indexed so to recreational activities not eroded on Resources of time. Flexibility parental for more time for they small kids The unnecessary limits  as Today is in regulations should is away and protection of the parental founding income should extended to three years. Right to leave on full for to be at home with kids should extended so to both  for ages has right to leave on full until child fill 3 years. This would especially favoring fathers sockets, then they often is at home  when child become a little older. All days be ex to left between  for ages - we says particularly  No to affirmative action in parental insurance.  Normal freedom to  choose childcare - childcare vouchers  We  want to parents also be to get childcare vouchers for care  about only own child in home. Although related be to stand for care. Childcare voucher for own child should be taxable and amount to 90 percent of municipality charge for  one space in  educational care, which corresponds over 7 000 SEK per month and child before tax.  Enhanced support to parents with teenagers The is  one demand inter parents  about to to get talk and consult with  any  about parental role and child development, not least  during adolescence. We  want  because increase access to parental support  by to do the mandatory for municipalities to providing training and  help to networking.  Sweden as a knowledge country Although  about many necessary and successful reforms performed for the Swedish school so shows several National and International studies to we still  stands before large challenges. Students' results Flag on several Areas  as measured. For to reverse development must we complete work for one school  as build on working atmosphere and knowledge.  One school in top class is  one provided for to Sweden be stand to well in future.  Towards us  stands  one left  as dedicated decades to to cast they solid value scales of table.  Requirement on quality, knowledge and understanding has rejected and in same spirit question they now homework and  want abolish rating.  Our formation tradition - with concepts  as roots and Heritage - has they rejected  as 7  one bourgeois Prejudice  as would aired out. The is of most weight to we not  allows this approach re control of the Swedish school. We  need restoring  one training tradition  as build on trust and confidence between  pupils, teacher and parents there teacher  get be teacher and there school mediates knowledge and stimulates pupils Intellectual development.  Our proposals for a better school: Upgrade teaching profession Talented teacher is the single main factor for pupils results. Skillful teacher be  because have  one good wage  during professional careers. We  want also continue work with to  prioritize inter teachers'  tasks and responsibility for to release time for more classroom subject teaching. Bet on reading - more classroom Tutoring Good reading comprehension is key to Success in they Most of school Subjects and basis for  one Lifelong Learning and  one active Life  as citizens. We  want bet on more classroom time and especially prioritize Swedish and reading. Upgrade formation - before  one Classic list Before  one Classic list with literary works - novels, Fiction, essays, tales, poems, - but also Films and music,  as all  pupils be have taken share of  during his schooling. The is especially important for child  as growing up in home without books and without lästradition.  More hours Sport Physical activity has  one positive effect, not only on health; without also on school results in otherwise. We  want because to number sports hours in  one first step expanded from current 500 to 600 in elementary school and to the spelled how distribution be see out between grades. For to enable this  want we decrease on h for learner selection.  Where  Case is to the be be Sport with physical activity on schema each day. Smaller classes in school Classes number of students  need decrease for to get  one staid learning environment, for to teacher be get more time for each Pupil and to each Pupil know to they  get the support they  need of his teachers.   Century Healthcare Reformequal treatment 8  Christian Democratic hälso-- and health care policy deleted from each human absolute and inviolable value and to the  as has most need be given priority to hälso-- and healthcare. IN office has we priority action for they most vulnerable patients. We has completed historical investments on psychiatry, cancer care and care of chronically disease. The health care guarantee and kömiljarden has contributed to shorter waiting lists. We betting now twice so very on dental care compared with In 2006. The number drugstore has increased with 40 percent and opening hours has become better. Nonprescription drug goes nowadays to buy in usual business.  Our initiative seems in direction against  one better and more available and equality care. But we is not happy! Healthcare is not equality and the is further problem with overcrowding; flaws in Patient Safety and waiting lists. Future set care before further challenges. The becomes more highly specialized and high-tech, more dependent of advanced equipment and specialist training staff. 21 different county with different Economic and demographic  conditions has already difficult and  get forward even harder, to supply equality Care to whole population. Everything speaks for to Sweden current model must reshaped  about for to face tomorrow challenges.   Our proposals for a more equitable health care: Increase State responsibility for care State should given  one increased responsibility for to secure  one Please, effective and equality  healthcare in whole country. We cherish patient right to good and equality health care; not current way to organize care. State should  take ofresponsibility for hospital care. Shorter Care queues less overcrowding - sharper Treatment Guarantee The National care guarantee has been strong Contributors to to short waits in care. The should continue to developed. We considers to care guarantee current time limits 0--7--90--90 in  one first step be replaced of  one outer deadline on 120 days  as comprises whole the continuum of care, i.e. time from first Contact, specialist assessment, diagnosis, sampling, X-ray, etc. to completion Action. We  want also to counties creation  one Care guaranteed admission  as gives each Patient right to Care on right Clinic with right skills. Short waiting times in cancer care Waiting times in cancer care is long and the is large differences between county in survival and time to treatment for  certain cancers.  During period 2015--2018  want we bet total two billion SEK on to shorten waiting times in cancer care and decrease they Regional differences. Develop dental aid so to more  can get share of the Dentistry Support has reformed and become more generously. Still is knowledge  about benefits though lack in many. Reform should developed for to increase knowledge  about possibility to 9  dental care. Thresholds and regulations should also seen above. Everything for to more be to get share of dental care support. 10   Short queues to kids-- and youth psychiatry We  want continue to short waiting times to the Specialized kids-- and youth psychiatry.  Before  one student health guarantee The psychic ill health inter adolescents has increased. The new Education Act set  requirement on  one Single student health with access to school doctors, the school nurse, Psychologist and Curator and Staff with special education skills. We  want Sharpness Claims further and introducing  one student health guarantee  as gives one Pupil right to in  one days get  Contact with student health services.  Wellbeing and dignity ofelderly Right to determine of his living termination not at  one some  age.  One elderly person has, just  as younger, individual need  as not  can met in  one template, in  one standard decisions. Healthcare and care must  because formed by the individual human needs. Much has accomplished - we has strong older people right to dignity, self-determination and quality in Care and care. But more  need done for to develop the  commonly funded elderly care. The Christian Democrats has been driving for to lower tax for pensioners. IN five step has we reduced tax on pensions which, together with increases of housing supplement, has meant to  one Warranty retired has about 1 900 SEK more in wallet each month compared with the taxation as  applied In 2006. We considers to tax on pensions be lie on same level  as tax on earned income.  The completely ruling factor both for to Create Resources to elderly care and to  one favorable Development of pensions is  one  continue favorable employment development. More Job gives more Resources to welfare.  One anti-growth Policy  comes beat  hard against elderly care and pensions. We want prevent to so occurs.  Our proposals for a dignified aging: Lazy elderly determine actual  Before  one  requirement in team on municipalities to providing freedom to  choose in elderly care.  Lazy also repatriations food and transportation service include in right to  choose the performers.  11  Right to nursing home for persons of 85 years without assistance assessment We  want give all persons of 85 years right to space in especially Lodging  about they so wish, without to the is  one assistance assessment. Purpose is to increase self-determination and participation for the individual. The is also important for sense of security to know to one has right to especially accommodation; also  about one not select to use the possibility. Good access to sheltered housing and like decreases need of specific accommodation shows experience. Quality on food Food and meal situation  need developed in elderly care.  During next mandate want we to food and meals be  one priority area for they Municipal stakes in elderly care. For to further drive on development should State introducing incentive grants. One national Strategy for non-profit educational Care and care  We  want simplification for non-profit Business and Organizations to act in welfare. Both new and already legacy Business be to get relevant information  about conditions to carry activity in frame for System of Choice and get the support  as required for to carry activity in  one longer perspective. Action plan against dementia The Christian Democrats  want to  one national dementia plane is forward for to develop new knowledge and early diagnostics and improve care and care for dementia. Improved dementia is  one key factor for to clear future demographic challenge. Lowered tax on pensions We  want lower tax for seniors so to the  ports on same level  as for wage earners. We has taken five important step on path against this  Case. We  want continue on this road  when the Economic development so permits.  Equality without quotas The Christian Democrats is  one portion for Equality between male and women. Where is Society not today. Hard gender roles characterizes contemporary culture  about how Women and male be be. Appearance Fixation and hard performance requirements creates Stress and Power many Young Women against Mental ill health. Women earns still less than male and  when not in same extent top jobs and boardrooms. Men violence against Women is  one spread and seriously social problem. Difference in school results between Boys and girls worries and risk lead to exclusion of Young male with incomplete schooling. Our needs, opportunities and living conditions must measured by they unique People we is, not  as representatives for gender, Orientation, origin or Disabilities. That we People is unique 12  means also to each human  make different selection in life; and these selection must respected. IN  one social climate  as  where, there they loud wants affirmative action and conflict, is the especially important to beat guard  about differences. Equality is  one  issue  about human fri-- and rights, not  about regimentation, Forced and quotas. For they  as wants strict similarity is the instrumental compulsion the most effective agent.  Where  Case accessible via  one another path. For us Christian Democrats is  one equality Society same  as to all be have equal conditions, to remove barrier for to to do free election, to respected for his life choices and to discrimination not occurs, not on something area.    Our proposals for a more equal Sweden: Equal wages in square activity We  want see to to public Businesses has equality wages. The work be be in both State, Municipality as county / region. No to affirmative action Appointments of Services and assignment be be by competence - not by gender, origin or age. That political decide  about affirmative action to Boards in Annual battles against ownership.  When the  applies affirmative action of parental insurance considers we to all days ex be to left between  for ages, we says particularly  No to affirmative action in parental insurance. Promoting Women business Freedom to  choose and freedom of establishment in welfare facilitates for Contractor in Traditionally feminised professions to start and drive company. The Left entrepreneurial hostile Policy would be one blow against these entrepreneurs. We  want increase investments on business advice for Women and do the  easier for Women to get while on venture initial capital. Prevent violence in near relationships We  want confident aid to kvinno-- and male shelters and increase resources to training around violence in near relationships and honor violence inter Staff in State, Municipality and county. For to protection they vulnerable  want we improve access to rehabilitation for them  as exercising violence. Act should change so to  one  requirement on assent introduced at sexual  actions. Collaborative premium points We  want to for spouses with Common children,  as not filled twelve year be the total earned premium pension distributed equal them in between,  about they not active Requests something otherwise. The would decrease difference in retirement between male and women. 13  Community and cohesion Society is so very bigger than State. Small near communities and  one Mutual dependent is  one central share of to be human. The is in interaction with second  as we People developed  as persons.  Because is Civil society so important. The is here basis added for democracy, humanity and  one Sweden  as hold together. The is there People of own free want get involved to and takes responsibility. The Christian Democrats Policy strive  because by to strengthen the civil Society and enable meetings between People with different  background. One Policy  as leads to to they interpersonal bands weakens  can never offset with  one new official and more bureaucracy or further  one contributions.  About policies goes in and takes of or regulates NGO activity  can important values go lost - values  as trust, Community, compassion, personalize responsibility and commitment.  Our proposals for voluntary and community: Develop gåvoavdraget The 1 January 2012 introduced Alliance Government  one Tax Credit for gifts to  certain non-profit organizations.  During years 2013 gave of 761 000 persons together away 1.3 billion crowns, which is  one increase with almost 36 percent compared with 2012. But the maximum amount for the individual sensor is for low and regulations is unnecessary awkward. The Christian Democrats  want raising the maximum amount from 6 000 to 12 000 SEK per person and years for they gifts  as is deductible and  take away both Registration fee on 10 000 SEK  as the annual fee on 7 000 SEK for they Organizations  as  want be approved gåvomottagare. We  want also extend tax reduction for gifts to to valid for more utilities purposes. Simplify regulations for the civil Society Organizations We  want to Civil society be continue to developed and  because be unnecessary control and laws  as in first hand complicates for Organizations is away or simplified. The  can e.g. act  about auditing duty or to different municipalities has different  requirement and regulations at applications  about support for similar business. This  need done on each political level. Safeguard Tax relief for compounds and denominations IN Sweden  need not non-profit compounds and Religious denominations pay VAT on commercial there excess goes to charity, e.g. second hand - shops. Our control has  though Interested EU--Commission to criticize Swedish legislation for to give non-profit Organizations competitive advantages. About they here organizations would  forced pay 25 percent VAT, threatened their Social ancillary activities. This is  one Development we  want prevent.  14  Warmer environment for more jobs The last years Economic and Financial crises has affected many People in  one long  advice  countries very  hard - not least in Europe. The Swedish economy has at comparison passed to good.  During Alliance Government has the become more than 250 000 more in work and 200 000 fewer in exclusion. But unemployment, especially youth unemployment; is still  one scourge. The Alliance has featured one new jobbmål: of five million People be have  one work years 2020  by to employment increases with 350 000  during period 2014-2020. The nearest years increases thereto challenge  when the  applies welfare financing. Everything more elderly be supplied of  one decreasing percentage in working  age. We and The Alliance  want carry the large betting as called Sweden Construction,  as means comprising investments on infrastructure in form of Regional public transport, high speed and 100 000 new housing. The is  by successful, prosperous Business they Resources creates  as  make the possible for us to face Future challenges and finance  our Common welfare. The requires  one business policyas creates more Job in growing company. Left Opposition skattehöjarpolitik  comes not lead to this, on the contrary. The conditions for business  need be even better. Taxes and fees, lack of capital, risks coupled to employer responsibility, legislative and administrative burdens, long authority turnaround times, poor infrastructure and skills shortages is  a few Example on problem  as business owners in Sweden wrestling with.  Our proposals for more companies and more jobs: Before  one apprentice employment status For to simplification step in on  labor market for adolescents  want we introducing  one new apprentice employment status. Employer  as hires  one Apprentice be get Economic support for to offset supervisory expenses. Reduce business sick pay costs For to decrease risks with to hire and improve conditions for not least they small undertakings  want we lower sick pay costs  by  one improved and simplified cost ceiling. Safeguard and develop RUT-- and ROT - deductions RUT-- and ROT - deductions open new markets and creates  conditions for new Business and job. The deductions creates  conditions for Families with Children and elderly to get unloading with different chores in home. We  want protect deductions, remove current demarcation problems and to deductions comprises also IT - Services in home. Left Opposition  proposal to deteriorations must stopped. 15   No to increased employer contributions for young, height restaurant VAT and height tax on work Increased taxes on Services and work leads not to more Services and more work. On the contrary.  About Sweden positive Employment Development be continue must leftist skattehöjarpolitik stopped. More paths in on  labor market for the with small Experience must creates - not fewer. Secure stable access to energy One stable and sure electricity is unlosable for  where Modern community. Security and long term is ruling for industrial investment.  One biparti- settlement on energy should pursued there the renewable  can increase but there also new Nuclear reactors allowed. Increased security at unemployment One important share of  one functioning labor is  one basic security at unemployment. All on labor market should subject of  one such security. We  want  because to unemployment insurance, just  as health insurance; be be general and compulsory. IN connection with  one such reform  want we raising and indexation roof.  A home for everyone One good living environment is basic for to Create confident Childhood Conditions for child and young.  During twenty years time has Sweden built less than half so many homes  as our Nordic Neighbours done per capita and far  during section in OECD.  Price pays we now. Normal youths combined with  one of they strongest urbanization trends in Europe  make to we in day has  one acute housing shortage in growth regions. During Christian Democratic conduit conducts government  one comprising Reform Agenda for to remove barrier for increased building. Simplification regulations for to build ungdoms-- and student housing, planning process has become clear and shorter subletting has facilitated, more building permits freed measures has introduced and taxes has reduced for to facilitate construction and accommodation. This Policy must completed. The left in policies opposes to many reforms and has above all no momentum to continue simplification work. The has no single  alternative  except to they  want back to more of Subsidies and regulations. The policies has tested with devastating results.  16  Our proposals for more housing: Never more property tax - abolish tax assessment The State property tax  where unpredictable and Taxed values  as not was matched of a few current incomes. But the costly assessed the system is still left, contributes to hassle for individual home owners and would to used for to reintroducing the old property tax system. We  want final abolish assessed the system. Increased driving forces for to build new housing and student-- and Youth housing For to improve they Economic conditions for municipalities to invest in new housing should  any form of Economic stimulation introduced to municipalities  as build new housing. We  want also to regulations further simplified, inter alia  when the  applies noise regulations, in purpose to providing more ungdoms-- and student housing to reasonable costs and to universities, colleges and Armed Forces given permanent right to providing homes for students, Investigator and temporarily Defence employees. Tax Situation  need seen of for tenancy,  above all with alignment on to facilitate for new construction. Make shore protection more flexible Shore rules be secure public access to beaches and protect unique natural values. But Rules is intricacy and unclear. Acquis must now reformed in basis so to sparsely populated Areas  can plots,  except in Areas  as  by Decision singled out  as worthy of protection. But also in exploited parts of land means current regulations to ownership sometimes  get  one all for weak position.  continue regulatory simplification - more building permits freed measures Reform of Plan-- and Building Act must continue in purpose to facilitate for Housing. Court order at appeal must streamlined. National interest System  need clarified and simplified. The list on building permits freed measures should increased. Measures  as not means  any restriction for neighbors or entails  any serious risk for moisture or another damage on house  about they performed non professionally should released from building permits. Exemptions should be in Areas  as classified  as historically valuable.  About municipalities not hold time limits for building permit should charge reduced. Timeout for to give starting clearance at notification to Building Committee be introduced. Counter homelessness The Christian Democrats  want to all municipalities there the is homelessness work by model "Housing First ". Method deleted from to see on home  as  one basic need for all; regardless problem as person  in question wrestling with. Based this offers person optional and individually  customized support efforts. Evictions of Families with Children must preventable.  17  Legal policy for security and trust Sweden be be  one confidently country to live in, regardless  about one live on countryside, in  one town or in  one suburb.  One of State main  tasks is to  by  one well functioning judiciary give Citizens security. That prevention crimes and to adolescents  ports in criminal Activities and to early react against, and break; criminally behavior is of most wt. For to succeed with this required  one Policy with  one holistic perspective on child and youth. The required  one supporting family policy,  one good school investments on youth upbringing and  one offensive criminal policy. Towards us  stands  one disagreement opposition with different  proposal on strong cuts on police and judiciary and reductions of punishment. The is not right road to go. The would decrease the risk for detection and relieve impact of to committing  one Criminal act and violate second humans. As build we not  one safer community.  Our proposals for fewer crimes: More visible police in fracture risk Areas International R shows to increased directly Patrol in Areas with high Crime works crime prevention. More visible police is very important for to youth gangs not be get sense of to have control of  certain housing and for to increase security for Others Lodging in area. Social Impact Bond for to prevention crimes One experimentation with so-called Social Impact Bond be tested in e.g. vulnerable Areas in co between public, private and non-profit operators for to decrease the risk to Young persons  as sentenced for crimes relapse to Criminal business. Criminalize participation in terror stamped Organizations We  want criminalize preparation before, participation in  exercise before and participation in Armed battle for Organizations  as is terror stamped according EU or UN classifications. Fight the organized Crime - test anonymous Witnesses Prioritize control of the organized Crime This  applies both local based criminals thread  as mobile leagues with international coupling. The ability to witness anonymously in  certain specific types of Criminal should tested in Sweden. The  can e.g. be  when the is serious hot from gang. 18   Prioritize fight against burglary Residential Burglary expected in Rule  as rough theft. IN many case leads the to  one prison on between 6--8 months which in practice often means Conditional Judgment and fines. Since burglary in home means  one large invasion of privacy for the  as affected  want we Sharpness penalties for burglary  by to introducing  one new offenses, burglary, with  one higher sentencing than the  as  applies for rough theft. The would lead to more  forced serve prison for burglary than what  as is case today. Belts penalties for break in series  Difference between to committing  one crimes or many similar crimes is for small Today and  need increase. The be be  by tighter penalty for in series.   Responsibility for environment and climate The is Whereas to worry to for future environment. Climate change, environmental toxins,  overfertilization and threatened Biological Diversity is all Example on  one Development  as not is sustainable. Meanwhile shows experiences to the goes to break  one negative trend.  The serious Environmental threat man  stands before is climate change. Effects of the too rapid heating of earth beat hardest against the poor part of Earth Population  as has hardest to customize itself. Possibility increases for to different Organic system collapses. Large efforts must done for to Create International agreements  as effective face this threat. One responsible environmental policy countered of the shortsightedness  as in too high degree characterizes Policy and economy. But also from forces  as  want use environmental threats  as pretext for  one anti-growth Policy  as would get devastating  consequences for welfare and human freedom.  Our proposals for a better environment: Reduce emissions of greenhouse gases The Christian Democrats  stands behind  one EU - target  about 40 percent decreased  carbon dioxide emissions in Union to 2030 in comparison with years 1990. Apart this  want we see  one  Case  about further 10 percent reduction as include commercial with International credit, the  want tell investment in projects for to decrease emissions in second  countries outside EU. We supports also  one  commonly EU - target  about 27 percent renewable energy in Union to years By 2030.  19   Effective Purifier The Christian Democrats  want to sewage treatment be equipped with advanced purification methods  as pass of to reduce drug residues and second impurities  as not treatment plants is capable to in current processes.  Give child right to  one non-toxic living One square player,  as conducts activity for children, should at  one procurement have right to itself set which miljö-- and health requirements  as be apply, unless counterparty not  can proving to Claims is unfounded. This would valid all from toys and baby bottles to food and Beverage  as in first hand consumed of child in operations. We  want have toxic preschools. We  want also to all variants of bisphenols prohibits in Products  as target to to children, and in food packaging and cash receipts. Stop eutrophication of Sea Sea is  one unique in the world brackish with  one especially ecosystems. We  want decrease eutrophication by to test  one system with transferable Emissions for nitrogen and phosphorus. We  want also prohibit oil drilling in Sea and to oil  as transported to maritime be labeled so to the goes to trace from which vessel  one Spill occurred. The Technical development has done this possible.  We  want also to fines for Spill in Sea increased significantly.  Security in an uncertain time Sweden  need  one functioning nationally defense. Not least development in Ukraine shows to threat change and then  need also defense ability change. IN present  can we see trends against new refurbishment and to number Armed  conflicts not decreases on same way  as  earlier. We looks also new threats, in form of e.g. natural disasters, terrorist attacks, pandemics or cyber attacks. The ability to nationally Defence and operations in Local area must given  one considerably higher priority.Sweden is dependent of functioning Relations with rest of world. Climate, environment, demographics; energy dependence, nuclear proliferation, Terrorism, lack respect for human Rights and international Organised Crime is global phenomena  as  can influence  our security. We must there be prepared that, by  our ability contribute to  one Safer and better world. Defence The main task is to protect human Life and freedom.   20  Our proposals for increased national security: Increase successively resources to defense Allocation to defense be successively increased for to provide improved defense capability. Investigate Swedish Membership in NATO We considers to the is time to do  one unprejudiced Parliamentary Investigation  about for-- and disadvantages with  one Swedish Membership in NATO. Secure manpower supply Totally Centrally for to Create  one functioning Organisation is to recruitment, education; employment and Veteran policies  constitutes  one priority share of Armed Forces business. Crucial for to current system be act and costs be be they planned is to the current done  one sufficient recruitment. We  want introducing  one incentive structure; different types of premiums, for to ensure both Recruitment  as to already Employee Staff stop Contract time out. The required also  one Extended exercises for to ensure all staff categories skills.  Establish  one center for veteranfrågor In Armed Forces should the is  one clear identified responsibility -  one Center for veteranfrågor - for to give support and  help by closed service in e.g. international bet. The is important to aid not only is on national level without also on local level. Responsible Staff for these questions should also to support employees in transition to civilian work.  Cohesion across borders Our Solidarity and humanity  get not do  slippery at national border - we has  one responsibility to do what we  can for  one better World for all.  Because Advocates we Christian Democrats  one generously aid  as when front,  one Refugee Policy  as characterized of Humanism and humanity and  one Policy  as promotes commercial and increased opportunities to movement of borders.  One World  as feel better - there more  get share of prosperity, democracy and human Rights - is also  one Safer world. Towards us  stands they  as  want prevent them  as flees away war, torture and Persecution to  come to  where country and  as while  want cut down assistance sharply. Towards us  stands also they  as -  about they wins election - want put  one  additional tax on gifts to Social ancillary activities both in Sweden and internationally. The  as think to the is important with  one uniform taxation than to encourage individual to give to purpose there their heart available. We  want instead extend tax reduction for gifts to non-profit Organizations to more purpose and with higher amount. Towards us  stands also they  as  want difficult for People to  come to Sweden for to work - and thereby decrease human opportunities to get 21  one better life, deteriorate for Swedish undertaking opportunities to get right Staff and damage Sweden growth opportunities.   Our proposals for solidarity across borders: 1% - the target in assistance be maintained  One bigger percentage of assistance should go via non-profit organizations. Assistance should clear focus on to promote human rights, not least religions-- and freedom of expression.  Stop Persecution of Christian Minorities  Sweden be in International connection work for to protect vulnerable minorities, regardless which minority. Right now is they Christian minorities so vulnerable to their situation requires specific attention, not least in Eastern. Swedish Foreign Policy be act for to support  one Democratic Development in Middle East  countries and for to minorities in region be have same constitutional rights  as the majority population. Continue and deepen  one human Refugee Policy  Sweden be continue to stand up for and have  one generous Refugee Policy and be  one sanctuary for People on escape away war and persecution, e.g. on basic of faith, conviction or sexuality. We  want creation  one inspection for Migration issues for to follow up to working methods, routines, previous knowledge and co between different operators gives each asylum seekers the legal security test one according team has right to. More  countries must  take his responsibility. We  want Create opportunities for Refugees to legally to  take to to Europe with emergency visas. The European  countries  as breaks against Common Asylum rules be applied severe sanctions.  Develop labor migration  We  want see more paths in to Sweden for the  as  want  come here and work. Labour immigration is important for to face challenge with Sweden and Europe aging population.  Students  as studied in Sweden should given  ability to stop least six months for to search work or start Business here. Meanwhile  need we improve work with to curb to system with labor abused and utilized in error purpose.  22