Election Manifesto

Time for a
warmer policy!
Sweden is a fantastic country. Here, many people have succeeded
realize their dreams. We have early taken us address future
challenges. But in recent years, Sweden has become colder.
Inequality and racism has been allowed to grow. The differences between women and
men's economic opportunities increases. The policy has failed to take
responsibility for people and the environment. We know that a country that gives up to
be fantastic for everyone, soon is not great for anyone. Therefore,
it's time for a more humane and warmer policy - it is
time for a new government.
Climate change is our greatest challenge. As world
leaders meet for the climate summit in Paris in December 2015, Sweden
be able to demonstrate that it is possible to make decisions that reduce our emissions
to sustainable levels. Sweden to be a modern pioneer and
inspire. The world can not afford a climate policy where countries cold
waiting in each other, instead of daring to go ahead. The policy must be
warmer. Not the climate.
It needed new jobs in Sweden, but the Alliance's work line has not
reduced unemployment. Instead, life has become extra tough and cold
those who lose their jobs or become ill. We want to invest in
climate work - the trains run on time, the renovation of the suburbs and the
new housing. In 2018, more people have jobs to go to and
young people the opportunity to find a way to study and work. It is
a more humane and warmer policy.
2

Time for a warmer policy!

All pupils should have to go to school with joy. Many will burn for
the teaching profession and everyone working in schools should be space for his
profession and create desire. There should be good and bad schools -
all schools should be fine. In 2018, many more choose to study
teachers, teachers to find time for his job and the students will receive support in time. Towards a
cold politics with more bureaucracy and profit-hunting, we warm Policy
with more staff and more time for each student. Allow students
back their teachers.
We are convinced that it is possible with a Sweden where it is our
common future unites us rather than where we come from,
how we look, what we believe, what sex we have, how old we are or how our
family looks like. After eight years of the Alliance, it is high time for a
a new government and a warmer policy.

In a new government, we want to:
1. reduce Swedish greenhouse gas emissions to sustainable levels and
take responsibility for what we leave to our children and grandchildren
2. make large investments for a sustainable Sweden, which
creates conditions for tens of thousands of new jobs and
prepares us for future challenges
3. reduce bureaucracy for teachers and rehire staff
school so that each student gets more time with their teachers and the support hen
need.

On 14 September you can participate and modernization
Sweden.


Time for a warmer policy! 3

1. Climate and environment
Sweden has all the prerequisites to become a global pioneer
with better environmental and climate emissions decreases rapidly. But it
requires a new government that is determined and invest in a
modernization of Sweden. We want to build an energy system as a whole
supports energy from renewable sources such as water, forests, wind and sun.
We also want to double public transport, linking Sweden
major cities with fast trains. The train will be cheaper than the plane and go
faster than taking the car. Anyone who destroys the environment will also stand for
costs. It pays to be environmentally friendly in both
supermarket cashier who boardroom.
We Greens see it as a major task to ask about society and
secure functioning ecosystems, clean water, clean air and fertile
earth. We defend nature when it is threatened by short-term interests. With
current policies fail Sweden 14 of the 16 environmental goals that all parties
says it wants to achieve. We want instead to build a society where people
do not consume the Earth's resources, where success is measured in more than gadgets, and
where prosperity is more than consumption.

In a new government, we want to:
1. implement a climate policy framework. The framework should
ensure that Sweden reduces emissions at the pace needed
for global sustainable development.
2. begin work to 100 per cent of all electricity production and
heating in Sweden will come from renewable energy sources
by 2030. During its term, the use of
fossil fuels significantly reduce, several old nuclear reactors
closed, energy efficiency and renewable
energy sources to be expanded. It will be more profitable to put up
solar cells on the roof or a wind farm.
4

Time for a warmer policy!

3. make it easier to travel climate. Climate targets must
control the national plans for investment in infrastructure
the transport sector. Public transport's share of transport should
double. We will improve and expand both the national rail network as the regional rail traffic and begin to build tracks
high speed. We want the state to regain control of
railway maintenance. Travelers will be able to rely on trains in
time. Urban environments that prioritize cycling and new cykel'vägar
between urban areas to make it a more attractive place to cycle.
4. break Sweden's dependence on oil. Should people be able to live there
car needed, even after the oil community, we must invest in renewables
fuels and electricity as fuel. These should be cheaper than gasoline
and we aim to cars and trucks to be fossil fuel-free years
2030. Investments in the production of biofuels, biogas filling stations
and infrastructure for electric vehicles will be supported. A fee of the
cars that are worst for the environment to finance a bonus on cars
with the very lowest emissions. Sweden's emission rights should not
get resale.
5. moving long distance freight transport from road and air to rail
and shipping. It produces less pollution, fewer accidents, reduced
congestion, and less wear and tear on the roads. The Alliance has raised
track charges for the train. We want to put an end to the rise and
imposition of a road tax which also includes foreign hauliers.
The flight shall bear its own carbon costs through an airport tax.
6. ensure that good ecological food purchased for the schools and retirement homes, and enable local suppliers to participate in
procurement. At least the same requirements on environmental and animal protection
in food production in Sweden will be in all public procurement.
We want to reduce waste and encourage it is eaten eating more vegetarian in
public kitchen, to the meat served to be able to come from
local production with the improvement of animal welfare. We strive for at least 50
percent organic food in public kitchens by 2020.


Time for a warmer policy! 5

7. ban dangerous chemicals. Sweden will take the battle in the EU
prohibition of hazardous substances. When the EU regulatory framework is not enough to be
Sweden go ahead with national legislation. Better control needed
to ensure that the drinking water is free of toxins. Places where
children spend a day, such as kindergartens and schools, should be
toxic.
8. expand protection of biodiversity. The
natural forests remaining in Sweden should be protected from logging
and conservation considerations should increase in the managed forest through more
use of weapon-free methods. Even urban nature
need more protection. It often has very high biological value
and for an increasingly urbanized population, närnaturområden
important for recreation, health and understanding of nature. Fishing and
oceans should be protected by more marine reserves, free areas
bottom trawling and strong measures against eutrophication. Fish
migration routes for reproduction must be protected and restored in
our rivers and streams. Catch rates of fish shall be
sustainable.
9. reinforce animal protection. Sharp animal welfare standards should be set in
public procurement. Animals to express their
natural behavior must be respected in all livestock. we want
prohibit the import of products from tortured animals. We say no to
mink farms and caged hens and yes to replace painful
animal experiments.
10. reduce waste and increase recycling for more sustainable
consumption. We want to extend the warranty periods on gadgets, make it
cheaper to repair things, promoting trade with second hand and
Vintage and promote the share's economy. We want food waste
collected and made into biogas for transport. There must be more
profitable to recycle valuable raw materials, such as
metals, than to develop new ones.

6

Time for a warmer policy!

2. New jobs
When we meet the climate challenge, we are creating at the same time opportunities
new jobs. Investments in renewable energy, climate-friendly neighborhoods and
faster trains are examples of initiatives that provide new jobs.
To cope with the modernization of Sweden is required of all men
force, work and dedication. The gender-segregated labor
will be broken. Unemployment is not just a problem for the individual,
it is a social problem. It is society's responsibility to open paths
for new jobs. Sweden can not afford to have people in unemployment when
there are so many important tasks to do!
The last term of the unilateral focus on tax cuts
have not reduced unemployment. We want instead to make investments
build a better society, both in terms of climate and school. New one
railway line provides jobs when it planned and built, while
improving labor market where people can commute. A good
education for all children requires us to employ more people in the school while
as it opens up job opportunities for more young people who are able
To cope with the school all the way to graduation.

In a new government, we want to:
1. make the investment climate for new jobs. Investments in
renewable energy, new climate-friendly neighborhoods, faster trains and
to equip our communities to climate change creates
conditions for 30,000 more jobs than with Alliance policies. The
provide new jobs including engineers, construction workers and
community planners.
2. create new pathways into the labor market for young people. we want
establish the starting centers where municipalities and authorities collected
to provide personalized support to young people to find their first


Time for a warmer policy! 7

job or start their first businesses. We want to expand vocational education,
vocational college and apprenticeship programs. Altogether give our suggestions
50,000 more young people a way into work, education or training already
2015.
3. cutting red tape and costs for entrepreneurs.
Entrepreneurs will be able to devote his time to running a business and therefore
reduce the regulatory burden. The cost of hiring should be reduced
by reduced employer contributions of up to 80 000 per
company. Sick pay liability to be abolished for small businesses.
4. hire more in schools, health and social care. A good school
and kindergarten, safe care for the elderly and healthcare high
quality are prerequisites for safeguarding citizens
growing companies. Instead of making new tax state
investments in more personnel in school and more employees in
health care and elderly care. It provides new jobs for, among other things,
educators, nurses and midwives.
5. open doors for people to educate themselves to the
new jobs that are emerging. Everyone should have the right to professional development
and it should be possible to make a career vicissitudes of life. we want
expand adult education and give CSOs the opportunity to start new
high schools.
6. introduce the possibility of a sabbatical year. A person who has a job should have
possibility of compensation corresponding part of the unemployment fund for study, time
with their family or breath mid-life, provided that
person who is unemployed get employment. It creates flexibility
the employee's terms and open pathways into the labor market.
7. extend and greening the tax deduction so that it can
used to renovate and energy efficient neighborhoods, schools
and rent apartments in need of renovation. It creates
the conditions for new jobs, among other things,
Million areas.
8

Time for a warmer policy!

8. provide industry with long-term rules for participation in
climate work. Along with industries, we want to develop
systems for energy efficiency and technology development. we want
implementing more innovative procurement and facilitate
employee stock options in growing companies. Sweden being the country of the
industrialized countries that invest the most per capita
sustainable technology.
9. ensure that all senior high school students have the opportunity for summer.
Municipalities should be instructed and supported to offer summer jobs
through cooperation with the business community, voluntary and private
business.
10. eliminating Phase 3. Phase 3 has not functioned as a route to work. We
To see the past efforts of unemployment. Employment Service and
local seed centers will have greater opportunities to find flexible
solutions for people with reduced work capacity and more people will have
employment in welfare.



Time for a warmer policy! 9

3. School and formation
All pupils should have the support and the time needed to get through school.
Preschool should with good teaching, care and play give children a good
start. More people will have the chance for a higher education and quality shall be
increased by more teacher-hours and more opportunities to practice.
Since the Alliance formed the government in 2006, thousands of educational
employees cut away from the Swedish School. Meanwhile, the
administrative work for teachers increased. Employees will therefore fewer
while they are forced to spend more time on paperwork. It keeps
not. Students receive too little time with their teachers and it means that many do not
get with them what they need in life. The high youth unemployment
Sweden depends largely on the fact that many do not get a fair chance at school
and leave youth without high school education.
The mental health among young people must be taken seriously, and the school is a
important place for the prevention and direct action. Support and help
must be available for all students. We give priority to education
front lower taxes and make major investments in school. It is a
good investment for the future.

In a new government, we want to:
1. reduce bureaucracy for teachers and hire more school so it
gets more time for each student. Lärarjobbet is not a single job. In order to
all students should be treated requires, among other things, expanded student health,
staffed school libraries, more recreation, more remedial teachers
and special education teachers, and better access to educational and
career guidance.
2. ensure that the support is inserted into the period. The day is the most special support
ninth grade. How late is it difficult for a student who has fallen behind
10

Time for a warmer policy!

to catch up. We want to introduce a reading-writing-arithmetic guarantee
ensures that the efforts put in as soon as a teacher finds a
needs, right from pre-school classes. Teachers should have the right to prescribe
extra support, without bureaucratic detours.
3. evaluate teachers as one of our most important professions. The teachers
shall have the right to higher wages, good working environment and continuous
skills development. The teacher should have time for spontaneous contacts
with students and to prepare their lessons.
4. break school segregation. There should be good and bad
schools - all schools should be fine. We want to see the state collaboration with
principals to improve the quality of schools with poor results. The
be built profile programs at schools that students would otherwise not
actively choose and resources to schools should be distributed according to need.
Students should be offered instruction in their mother tongue. They shall also
offered bilingual instruction in other subjects. All
secondary school program will provide general eligibility for higher education.
5. regulate so that those who run school reinvest all
any surplus in school activities. We believe in teaching
diversity and want those driving school will do it with passion
for forming the commission. Stakeholders in order to share profits
the owners should not be running schools and it should be requirements
long-term ownership and transparency.
6. Investing in pre-school and after-school centers. All children
preschool has a right to be seen, the time for play and educational
challenges. A functioning school activities is important
To provide continuity and versatility in children's learning. Where
goal is a maximum of five children per teacher in kindergarten. The kindergarten,
recreational shall be provided for children, whether and what times parents
work. All staff should have the opportunity to educate themselves to get
eligibility.



Time for a warmer policy! 11

7. improve the quality of higher education and the number
teacher-led hours for students. The student grant will be raised and
Study-avgifternaför overseas students abolished. The
needed more education and the need for investments to
open higher education for more from non-academic homes. Students
shall be subject to the social security system under the same conditions as
workers. Publicly owned colleges and universities should not
privatized or corporatised.
8. invest in modern pedagogy. Everyone should feel safe in
school. Work on anti-racism, standard criticism and gender pedagogy
will be strengthened in schools and preschools. Teachers will have the opportunity to
training and students the right to influence their school and their
training. Good access to and use of modern technology
School will bridge the digital divide in Sweden. At least one
aesthetic subject should be included in all secondary education.
9. rehabilitate the country's schools and kindergartens. State and
principals must jointly invest in a good working environment in
Climate-smart buildings with modern learning environments. Children should have
access to green schoolyards. Students will get free,
nutritious school meals, even in high school.
10. establish a school commission. Reforms of school should be
funded, based on science and anchored among teachers
and students. The results of the OECD-depth analysis of Swedish
School should be submitted to the school commission which gathers
representatives of research teachers, students and policy.
The Commission should have a mandate on the basis of the OECD and own
analyzes reconsider recent decades major school reforms and
submit proposals for equal education system where all students get a
honest chance.

12

Time for a warmer policy!

4. Feminism and Gender Equality
All human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights. So begins
UN Declaration of Human Rights. But we are not there today.
Conversely, the economic gaps between men and women among
as a result of an unequal economic policy. A Feminist
equal opportunities policy is not satisfied until women and men
incomes are equal to men's violence against women ceased, our schools actively
working on gender and not hindered by outdated gender norms.
Our equality policy is based on an anti-racist feminism and
insight that different power systems interact. The widespread
mental health of particularly young women and LGBT people are an
major social problem. Transgender persons subject today is not the same
legal rights as the rest of society.

In a new government, we want to:
1. working for pay equality and break down gender segregation in
labor market. The action plan Akademikerförbundet
SSR, Municipal, Vision, LSR and Health Professionals has developed
to become a reality. Where the Green Party are involved in shaping policy
majority, the public employers go before equal pay
and the right to full time.
2. invest in improving the work in female-dominated
occupations such as nursing and care professions. Mental illness and
sick leave among women in working life will be reduced.
3. sharing parental insurance in three equal parts, each
parent takes their part and the third part can be distributed freely
or transferred to someone else close to the child. It means
two new "daddy months" during the next term.


Time for a warmer policy! 13

4. combat men's violence. We need more prevention, more
male receptions and better conditions for women's shelters
work. All sex without consent should be illegal. Compulsory
training for judges on sexual crimes and violence against
Women should be implemented.
5. introduce quotas for women on boards of listed companies.
In the municipal companies should Miljöpartiet go there and choose the first
mostly women and our representatives.
6. invest in school health and child and adolescent psychiatry
to counteract and prevent young people's mental health, as
particularly affects girls and LGBT people. Boys' results,
raised through teacher training, and a national center for
standard critical pedagogy. A law against sexist advertising
reinforces gender norms and contributes to mental health are inserted.
7. make it easier to investigate näthat. Adults who support young
on the Internet, nätvandrare, should be trained across the country.
8. improving sex education.
Teaching must feel relevant to all, regardless of
gender, and imbued with norms criticism. Discussions
about what is okay sex, coupled with consent, needs to be completed.
9. Strengthen support and expertise to respond to victims of violence
people in same sex relationships or with disabilities
as well as to persons who are victims of honor violence. Women's shelters
need to receive full compensation for the part of their
activities which constitute social services, and local authorities must ensure
there are apartments to move to when it's time to move out
from the shelter.
10. introduce a law on gender mainstreaming so that
agencies and departments are assigned to build a
gender perspective in all its activities. Equality will
permeate all areas of society.
14

Time for a warmer policy!

5. Public health, quality of life and health care
We want to drive a new modern public health policy where living conditions
distribution policy and the right to housing are obvious starting points. IN
an egalitarian society, everyone has the conditions to good health,
quality of life and access to quality care during illness. Today
characterized care too often fragmented efforts only responds
symptoms, not causes.
We want to see a policy based on a holistic view of man and the
which promote health. Every effort we make to reducing ill health saves
money that we can use to build out a good care. E-health is a
area which needs to be strengthened and developed.

In a new government, we want to:
1. promote health and reduce inequalities in health. we want
clarify the strategic work for a socially sustainable society
by introducing a folkhälsolag. The governance of health services to
promote the long term health and benefit systems should therefore be seen
above. One thing we want to ban trans-fats in food, to reduce the
harmful particles in urban air and protecting a restrictive alkoholoch tobacco policy.
2. invest in the quality of nursing care. We want to invest more in
close care so that the health center is the natural
the first choice for the patient. The health center physician should stand for
Continuity in the meeting with the patient, instead of rapid response by the
hyrläkare. Primary care and psychiatric care are areas that need to be
strengthened. We want to see a particular focus on women's health and
maternity care in the county council. Health care needs more
specialist nurses to meet future health care needs of


Time for a warmer policy! 15

the right skills. We want to increase nyantagningen to medical school
and developing training positions for nurses
further training to be a specialist nurse.
3. increase staffing in geriatric care. We want to regulate so that
Manning never less than the residents' needs. With more
employees in the care older people receive better opportunities to enable
, contribution of culture, get out, eat in peace and quiet and get help
hygiene and dental care. The food must be good and ecological, to increase
quality of life and health.
4. introduce a care guarantee in substance abuse care.
The health care guarantee should include both the county council that the municipality
treatment. Homelessness is primarily a housing problem and its own
a housing is provided to deal with other
problems. We want to legislate for the right of everyone to housing and against
evict families with children. We want to improve the situation of the homeless
EU migrants. No one should be denied the fundamental rights of all
shall have the right to care and homelessness should be fought irrespective of cause and
regardless of origin living in homelessness. Sweden will
operate in the EU that all EU citizens should have the right to emergency medical care at
same conditions.
5. work for everyone to have the right to be part of a
context. It is a way to increase public health. We want to improve
rules regarding sick leave so it will be easier for the person
need to work part time. Care shall ensure the whole person
its life situation.

16

Time for a warmer policy!

6. Town and country
Everyone shall have the right to thrive and develop where they live. Sweden gets colder
when the gaps between people is growing and where you are born and grow up
determining your chances in life. Both in rural and
Million areas looking people how utilities
disappears, and opportunities for education and work deteriorates. You
should not need to provide either the rural or the urban suburbs
to get education, housing or jobs.
More and more people are looking for an urban life. Dense cities with good
public transport, public services, parks, bicycle paths and pedestrian zones
needed to enable more people to live sustainably. In growing cities it
crowded public transport and difficult to find housing. There is a need
active policies for climate-smart cities where good architecture and
environmental technology makes it easy to do right. In rural areas we want to invest in a
more adapted to accessibility of public transport. All people should
able to go eco-friendly.
Many new jobs may be created in rural areas through a policy
promotes increased food self-sufficiency and production of
biofuels that can replace imported oil. Government jobs should be spread
more across the country. Better communications, IT infrastructure, service
and networks of civil society also provides more different jobs for
rural residents.

In a new government, we want to:
1. renovate and climate-million program suburbs
and residential areas. We would like to take this opportunity to provide residents
the opportunity to plan their community, creating premises for
associations and safe areas. The investment in the suburb
common and can not be paid through large rent increases,
Therefore, we are working for an expanded tax deduction.


Time for a warmer policy! 17

2. greatly increase the rate of construction of rental apartments. The economic
conditions need to be more fairness between rental apartments and
condominiums / villas, for example, property tax reductions for
rental apartments. We want to give smaller building firms to compete
and implement a special program for 30,000 more small,
climate-friendly rental apartments in cities.
3. expand fast broadband and to focus on the regional
colleges and distance for it to be
opportunities for education and employment in Sweden. we want
secure equitable and accessible public services throughout the country.
4. develop a food strategy for Sweden.
Climate change demands that good agricultural land
used for food production. We want to increase Sweden's self-sufficiency
of food and give Swedish farmers good opportunities to ask about
a non-toxic, organic production. Drinking Water Safety to be included
the food strategy. Peri-urban farming should be encouraged.
5. safeguard ecotourism, agriculture and herding in planning
mines. The mining industry must meet higher environmental standards. we want
modernizing mineral legislation and the Mountain State's mission
by securing the environmentally protected areas of exploration and
test drilling. We want to ban exploration and production
uranium, oil and gas. People's right to clean water has to go before
mining establishments. The fee of recovered metals must be raised
sharply and recycling. We want to strengthen Sami
status as an indigenous, inter alia by ratifying
ILO Convention 169th

18

Time for a warmer policy!

7. Migration and equal rights
In the shadow of the economic crisis, xenophobic
parties and racist movements have been able to grow in Europe by
blame the deterioration and cuts on "the other". A cold
social climate nourishes hatred and prejudice. Migrants and minorities
as Roma, Muslims, Jews, LGBT people and people with
impairments are particularly hard hit. Now is the time to stand
up for human rights and a human migration policy. Our
vision is a world without borders, where everyone has an opportunity to move,
but no one is forced to flee. We will always work for a more humane
and transparent policy and we will never make it more difficult for
people to come to Sweden.
We look positively on labor migration. We want to strengthen
labor migrants' rights and to ensure that people do not
exploited by unscrupulous employers. We also attach the highest importance to a
really good integration policy. Where Swedish society has much
to improve. Any good forces needed and will be needed to
meet the future challenges of creating a sustainable society.

In a new government, we want to:
1. strengthen the right of asylum. Related and health should outweigh the
reasons for remaining than they do today. While LGBT people should
given strengthened asylum. The so-called two-year rule of the Aliens Act,
which leads to women without a permanent residence permit
risk being locked into violent and destructive relationships,
should be abolished. On whose expulsion has not been enforced within
two years should be granted a permanent residence permit. Child be easier
be reunited. Sweden will press the EU to create legal
routes into the EU to seek asylum and to increase acceptance of
quota refugees. The Convention shall be made to Swedish law.


Time for a warmer policy! 19

The Green Party wants it to be easier for children born in Sweden
to obtain citizenship. All who are born in Sweden and permanent
live here should automatically get Swedish citizenship.
2. reform the work with new arrivals. Newly arrived
Adults and children will soon be included in society, in
labor and school. All Swedish municipalities to participate in
refugee reception. We want to improve the housing situation for all
asylum seekers and protect the right to own housing.
Voluntary organizations should increasingly be able to participate in
efforts to meet the new arrivals. Newcomers should be easier to obtain
his education assessed to quickly search for jobs in Sweden.
3. combat discrimination. We want to bet on
anti-discrimination offices so that more people can get help when they become
discriminated against. Stakeholders in the judiciary should be trained and we
would make hate crimes a priority for the police.
Transgender persons shall be subject to estate and hate crimes legislation.
We demand, just like health care unions, the undocumented and asylum seekers
shall be entitled to the same care as others in the country.
4. strengthen LGBT policy. Children should have the same right to security,
opportunities and respect no matter what their family looks like. The law should
adapted for children to grow up with one, two or more adults with
joint responsibility for the child. In families with more than two parents
will also be more able to be guardians.
5. legislate inaccessibility as discrimination. Act
Support and Services, LSS, to clarify and ensure everyone
opportunities to participate fully in society.

20

Time for a warmer policy!

8. Global Justice
More people than ever before live in democracies,
infant mortality decreases and literacy increases. Meanwhile
is the world's resources is still unfairly distributed, children die
from diseases that could easily have been avoided, and the battle for
natural resources in the wake of climate change causing war and
conflicts. The world has already discovered more fossil energy than we can
do with if we are to avoid runaway climate catastrophe.
Sweden is to be a voice for justice, peace and sustainable development. We
shall work for the UN's goal of universal disarmament, control over
and the elimination of all nuclear weapons and that war criminals are facing
right. All foreign policy should assume that sexual rights are
human rights. Sweden should stand in the forefront of equality
and against violations of LGBT people. We will in the EU and in other
international agencies promoting abortion law and sexuella- and
reproductive rights.

In a new government, we want to:
1. promote human rights and environmental concerns in
international trade. Sweden government consumption should be
ethical and environmentally certified. Sweden will become a 'Fairtrade nation.
2. restore the target of one per cent of GNI international
assistance. Illegitimate debts should be written off and tax havens
counteracted.
3. raise Sweden's ambitions in the climate negotiations and to give
climate financing for poorer countries outside the aid budget.



Time for a warmer policy! 21

4. liquidate Swedish arms exports to dictatorships and countries
armed conflict. Sweden should not join NATO. Sweden will
prioritize conflict prevention, where to build a civilian
Peace Corps in the EU is an important part. Women's participation in
Peace processes must be ensured in accordance with UN resolution
1325.
5. protect the Arctic and other sensitive environmental areas against
exploitation of oil and fossil gas. Sweden will work for a
international ban on subsidies for fossil fuels.

22

Time for a warmer policy!

9. Economy and Labour
Today's economy is too short-term and focused on tangible
values. The economic gaps have grown and segregation has increased
the Alliance was in power. The goal of the social economy
be to manage resources in a way that will benefit everyone's quality of life,
environment and gender equality. Sustainable production and trade should be promoted
and speculation prevented. We will not shoot over the shoulder of our
children. Hence the need for order in public finances with
clear financial framework.
We want to create conditions for a balance between work and leisure, where
People can influence their working hours. Anyone who becomes ill or loses
their work should not be condemned to poverty. It is important to protect
collective agreements and the Swedish model in the labor market. We
will take the initiative for talks with trade unions and employers
Better working conditions and reduced working hours. Social Business
and workers' cooperatives should be encouraged and supported as they constitute
successful models for integration of people who are far
from the labor market.

In a new government, we want to:
1. overcome the economic and social gaps in Sweden.
Child poverty should be countered by including justice
security, preschool and school without hidden charges, elevated
maintenance and tax deductions for single parents.
2. create a safer labor. We want to introduce a
joint health and unemployment insurance that covers all
and we want to raise the floor and the ceiling in the UIF. We would also counter
abuse of fixed-term employment and hourly employment, abolition
involuntary shared tours and increasing employee power over
schedule.


Time for a warmer policy! 23

3. shorten the normal working hours by law and contract, so that more
the opportunity to 35-hour work week. Environment require
economic development can not be taken out of the increased resource consumption, but
increased time for socializing and community involvement. Therefore we want
those who so wish will be able to take out pay increases in short
working hours rather than in cash. Employees in the elderly and
other industries where many wear out before retirement should have
economic opportunity to the shorter working week.
Working Abbreviations similar to those it has agreed in
many male-dominated sectors should also become a reality in
female-dominated jobs.
4. regulate so that any gains in publicly funded
well-being reinvested in the business and non-profit actors can
promoted.
5. favoring long-term investments at the expense of short-term
speculation. We want to counter the increase in household indebtedness. New
dimensions of social development should be developed in addition to GDP also
taking into account environmental and social factors. Ethical rules
shall apply to the placement of common equity, which e.g.
AP funds. We want to develop a sustainable economic system
not based on growth. We shall work for a green investment bank.

24

Time for a warmer policy!

10. Culture and associations
Everyone should have the right and opportunity to participate in culture. Culture should
question, tickle, examine and deepen, entertain, delight and
enrich. Culture makes individuals and communities to grow. Culture is
Democracy promotion, and furthermore climate. It provides a
meaningful leisure activities, creative work and a better school. Free
theater groups, municipal music and culture schools and public libraries
are all guarantors of everyone to take part in culture, both as
performers and audience.
The width allows for Swedish film, music and culture to
also achieve international success. Professional cultural practitioners should
be able to live off their creativity, whether you are an artist,
musicians, dancers, actors or writers. We want to improve
conditions for creativity and facilitate people's lives
Internet by fair use rules of copyright. It is necessary for
allowing the satire and criticism, but also to sample and remix culture.
The sports movement is Sweden's largest popular movement. Through resources
youth and for sport, including sport for people with
disability, Korpi Drott and sports, we invest in
both quality of life as people's health. There will also be plenty of
opportunities for spontaneous. Today, boys sport a
greater proportion of public resources than girls. We want to break it
pattern.

In a new government, we want to:
1. ensure that all children have access to municipal musikoch arts. We want to develop a new library policy to
ensuring access of all citizens to the library, and to stop
the closure of branch libraries.


Time for a warmer policy! 25

2. instruct the national cultural institutions have operations in
throughout the country, for example by biovisningar of theater and opera.
The cultural infrastructure should stimulate more meeting and
assembly halls for a creative culture and club throughout
country. We want to promote representativeness in cultural activities with regard to
eg disability and the presence of cultural and
literature in different minority languages. The government grant as
regions benefits for cultural activities will increase.
3. improve the conditions for cultural creators through stronger
public security, annual lists of
copyright payments, and developed cultural media.
Library of compensation shall be increased to two crowns.
4. guarantee public service independence. Major sporting events
will be aired on channels that are available without a separate charge.
5. provide associations equal and long-term conditions.
Girls' and women's sports, and other interests to have the same
conditions that boys and men. We want to break the civil society
dependence on project grants and allocate a larger share of
resources by commune and other long-term
financing.

26

Time for a warmer policy!

11. Democracy and the law
Everyone shall have the right to feel safe and secure in Sweden. Each time
some are beaten by their partners, are subjected to harassment at school
or discriminated against in krogkön something goes down - not just in the
the person's trust in the rule of law, but in Sweden as a society.
The breeding ground for criminality lies in social problems such as poverty,
abuse, unemployment and growing economic inequality. We meet the
social problems, it also increases the security and confidence.
The judiciary's work will focus on the legal certainty and efficiency,
not only on measurable performance. Victims of crime should have access to Protection
and rehabilitation. Probation should have the objective of the convicted
should not relapse into crime. Crime prevention should
be in focus and discussion of punishment based on research and
proven experience.
We oppose that more intrusive laws and systems
introduced at the expense of human rights and freedoms. We want to protect
openness in society and strengthen protection for those who reveal
Corruption, crime and other ills.

In a new government, we want to:
1. strengthen the protection of victims, through secured financing
to crime victims and shelters. Every convicted person should get a
individual care and treatment plan that focuses on measures
which has been shown to reduce the risk of reoffending.
2. introduce a law that protects the so-called whistleblower on the whole
the labor market, to expand freedom of communication to include all



Time for a warmer policy! 27

publicly financed services and tearing up the Law Alliance
introduced in 2014, which puts EU negotiations before
principle of publicity.
3. modernize the police with better guidance, training and
IT tools. We want to make police training a
higher education and to reform the governance of the police so that
resources spent on effective enforcement rather than
Statistics hunting.
4. safeguarding personal privacy. We want to establish a
privacy authority, appoint a crisis commission on
privacy and tear up the FRA law and data storage law.
Within the EU, we want to work to unravel the parts of the IPRED giving
copyright industry police-like powers.
5. that decisions should be taken as close to people as possible. Because
we want to shift more power from the state to the regional level. We want to form
directly elected regions with development responsibility, throughout Sweden.

28

Time for a warmer policy!

Modernize
Sweden!
The Green Party has over thirty years fought for a
environmentally friendly, solidarity and sustainable Sweden. We are part of a global
green movement that strives for a world where everyone can live good lives without
compromising the ability of future generations.
We want to implement a policy where we live within nature's limits, recognizing
our deep interdependence. We want to be a voice for those who do not
can make their voices heard. This boundless solidarity can be expressed
threefold:

- Solidarity with animals, nature and the ecological system
- Solidarity with future generations
- Solidarity with all the world's people.
We believe in diversity and it is one of the green movement's forces. The
there are many ways to be green on. We are united by the common
the task of shaping our society for a new time. We welcome all
who want to participate in this work.
Election manifesto includes proposals that we want to implement or initiate the
a new government in the next legislature. The manifesto is our contract
with all of you who vote for the Green Party in 2014. The proposals have been
developed in conversations with hundreds of thousands of people, and
summarizes what we believe is particularly important in the next four
years.


Time for a warmer policy! 29

This is our ambition and the policies we are seeking your trust.
We know that in a government we must work together and seek solutions
with others. The economic space is limited. We
do not want to hand over either an ecological or economic debt to
future generations. Reforms must always be based on
cooperation and responsibility for both the economy and the environment.
Our vision is bigger and extends beyond the 2018th
More about our policies and our vision is to read in our party program,
Our European manifesto and mp.se.
We want to modernize Sweden along with you.
You can get involved in the election campaign on volontar.mp.se
and become a member of the Green Party of mp.se/bli-medlem

Welcome!

30

Time for a warmer policy!



Time for a warmer policy! 31

READ MORE AT
www.mp.se

R A
ISLAND
F
S
G
A
D
E
VARMARK
POLITI
