Left Party
election platform

Left Party
election platform
for the parliamentary election 2014

The Left
2014

A country built with
common prosperity and
solidarity is fundamentally
stronger than a country where
market greed will prevail.

Our prosperity is not for sale
A country that is built with the common prosperity and solidarity are fundamentally stronger than a
country where the market greed will prevail. The conservative government has broken down a lot
of what we've built up over decades. The result is an increasingly insecure
labor market with high unemployment, increasing housing shortage, deteriorating welfare, increased
class divisions and a less equal society. Left standing for an alternative
that can challenge the greed and apathy that characterizes large parts of the day
policy.
The Left Party's most important issue in the general election in 2014 is that no tax money
for health care, education, preschool and elderly care will go to companies that are looking to take out
profit. We would rather invest in a higher quality of welfare to depend on.
Sweden is facing a number of challenges that must be resolved with legislation and initiatives. We believe that it is possible to solve the problems of our time - climate crisis, inequality, unemployment, the increasing class differences, racism and inequalities between women and men.
Every voice on the Left contribute to a policy of fairness, equality and responsibility
for our environment, in Sweden's municipalities, counties, regions and parliament.
The Left has a central role in achieving a change of politics and government.
Sweden needs a government that puts the fight against unemployment is primarily and do
the privatization policy. It is only possible with a strong leftist party. One
government where the bourgeois parties included will not be able to create a viable alternative to the current policy. Every voice on the Left is a vote to change to a red-green
government.
The Left Party's parliamentary feminist party. Feminism is about redistributing
power and resources so that women and men have the same opportunity to influence society and their own lives. Left runs a feminist policy changes
both possible and necessary.
A society with increasing differences between rich and poor, where politics is increasingly
focus on taking from the workers, the unemployed and the sick and to give to those who already
rich, is a hotbed of racist and fascist movements and parties. The Left
stands for the political options that can channel people's sense of powerlessness
a constructive struggle for social change. This is a struggle for concrete
improvement of people's living.

Sweden has all the prerequisite
is to build a future with
Community, justice and
solidarity. However, it will
not be realized without
The Left.

Left goes to elections as an independent party. Left puts proposals
unites the goal of work for all and a sustainable society, through long-term
investments in alternative energy sources, new climate-smart homes and environmentally friendly transportation. We are taking concrete steps equal conditions in the workplace and society in general.
Security and influence on the job given priority over the companies' need for flexibility
and increasing profits. Labor, justice and democracy are the foundation of a society where
all have a place. A society that trust is vital to counter racist
forces gaining ground. Our common welfare should be driven by citizens' best
for the eyes - not shareholders and riskkapitalisters. Sweden has all the makings
build a future of community, justice and solidarity. But it will not
realized without the Left.
Here we present policy we want to implement at national level until 2018th
All the proposals we finance fully in our budget alternative.

A welfare non-profit
We need to ensure that major economic interests must never influence
the welfare state - and that Sweden's elected politicians are driven by the desire to create a fair
society, not their own financial interests. This is a crucial issue for how our country should
developed. We will not contribute to today's privatization policy continues.
Left To regulate
against picking out gains from
health care, schools, preschools and
elderly care.

No gains in welfare
The Left wants to legislate against picking out gains from health care, education, preschool and
elderly care. Resources should instead go to more staff and better quality. The private
Companies that are serious and put operations mainly can transform themselves into companies
non-profit and continue working for the good welfare. Those whose driving force is to pick out
profits will go elsewhere. Welfare must be guided by concern for us
use.
Constitution protect common property
Common property is nothing that politicians should be able to sell anyway.
The Left Party wants to sell-offs shall require a three-fifths majority
alternatively two decisions with intermediate choice. This protection shall be inserted in the Constitution
and apply at the state level, as well as in municipalities and counties.
Increased quality for a welfare to trust
Welfare, as we have known it until now, has begun to crumble. In privatization, the grooves
we see the resources reallocated from women to men and there are women with
unpaid work may cover up where welfare shortcomings. Resource shortages and privatization are
to transform everyone's right to good housing, education, health and social care a privilege for those who can afford it. Our welfare system stands or falls by whether it delivers
quality to all, and if it is financed by all. We want to abolish RUT. We need to do
major investments in welfare where the money ends up in the business and not in private
venture capital companies' pockets. The general grant to municipalities and county councils
raised and indexed.
Investments in health and social care
We want to increase resources for health care so that thousands more may be employed and the number of beds increased. Although preventive health efforts should be strengthened with a bet
at health centers, particularly in socially deprived areas where poor health is very large. we want
also increase staffing levels in elderly care through an earmarked investment that fully
developed will be enough, for example, about 10 000 more nurses. Thus
the quality would be strengthened both in dementia care as home care. We want to give the elderly
increased influence over their actions and we want to give them their own hours to decide.
Education for all
All students should be able to trust that they go to a good school and that they receive the support they need.
Schools are not to be operated for profit. For all schools and students should have good
and the playing field will require the state to take over responsibility for the school and free school choice is replaced with the main principle that you are in school closest to home. We want to make
a bet of 6,000 new teachers in primary schools to give students more support and teachers
a better working environment. We also want to invest in reduced groups of children in preschool and in
recreation centers for business with good quality to be conducted. It should be
possible for everyone to study. Therefore, we want to increase student aid.
Increased quality in health care
The personnel reinforcements, we want to make will contribute to better health care.
To develop the quality further in the welfare needed investments in education and
skills development. We want to implement a paid specialist training for nurses, a carefully lifting the elderly and disabled care, and introduce trainee replacement to cover for those who are studying.

Everyone should feel secure
that it is possible to manage
financially if you become ill.
We want the term to 80 percent
should get 80 percent of their order
lost income in case of illness.
The right to sick pay should
exist as long labor inducing
gan missing.

A health insurance to trust
Everyone should feel secure that it is possible to cope financially if you become ill.
We want the term to 80 percent will get 80 percent of their lost income in case of illness.
The right to sick pay should be as long as work is missing. No limit
should be in the sickness benefit. It should thus not be possible to be performing secured and
transferred to the labor office during illness. The individual should be guaranteed
rehabilitation.
Fair pensions
We want to create a fair and sustainable pension systems with pensions to live on
and the resulting income. People must be well in advance of retirement to
understand and calculate the size of the pension. Pensions will be jointly financed and
the pension to be redistributive in order to create more equality between men and
women, rich and poor, and between generations. We want to raise the guaranteed pension. We
also wants to abolish the premium pension system (PPM) and transfer those fees to
Income pension. We want to abolish the brake and prevent the pensions automatically
can be lowered.
Secure jobs and a human work
Bourgeois politics has led to more and more people have become unemployed or forced into unsafe
employments. This has meant increased stress and poorer opportunities for many people
to plan their future. The Left wants to invest in secure jobs. We want to strengthen job security, not abolish it. We want UIF restored so that it becomes a
secure transitions insurance for those affected by unemployment.
Combat unemployment - to invest in real jobs
We want to create real jobs. Under the threat of redundancies real wages forced down, working conditions deteriorated and job security relaxed. We want to be on
all people's willingness and ability to work. Unemployment is a social failure and a huge waste of human resources. It is more effective with public utilities
investment than tax cuts. We suggest investment in more staff welfare and investment in infrastructure, housing and climate adaptation, investments
as the first year would provide 30,000 new jobs.
Preventing illegal work and social dumping
Work and competition must be on equal terms. All who work in Sweden are entitled to the
wages and working conditions regulated by law and collective agreements. We need a national
action against tax evasion, illegal work and social dumping. This will include the Lex
Laval will be torn up so that Swedish collective agreements apply, the main contractors taking
responsibility for relations with subcontractors, demands for fair conditions for public
procurement and better control of the authorities and the unions.
Fair conditions for labor immigrants
The use of foreign labor in Sweden and the dumping of wages and working conditions on the Swedish labor must be stopped. Legally binding agreement
pay and working conditions should exist to ensure that labor immigration is not
utilized. Employees who come forward and tell us about abuses will not risk expulsion. Anyone who has been deceived by their employers to have their case heard in court
and damages. The granted work permit for an employer who violated
employment agreement should be allowed to stay in Sweden for the full term of the license out to
seeking new employment.
The right to permanent full time job
We want to legislate on the right to permanent full time job. It is a central issue of gender equality that
also nurses, waitresses and shop workers should be able to live on their wages. Act
on employment should be changed to full time becomes the norm, and part-time opportunity - not a
coercion.

Permanent employment should be
standard and to require
specific reasons for hiring
anyone temporarily. Anyone who has been
temporary staff in together
added two years during a period of
five years should be given permanent employment
tion. The legislation at inhyr
ing temporary workers
will be tightened.

Combat precarious employment
No one should have to work year in and year out as timvikarie, auxiliary or contract
in a few months at a time. Permanent employment will be the norm and to require special
reasons to hire someone temporarily. Anyone who has been temporarily employed for a total two
year over a period of five years should be given permanent employment. Legislation in hiring from
employment agencies should be strengthened, among other things, that it should not be done at the permanent labor needs.
Short working hours
We want to shorten working hours. It must be possible for both women and men, workers
and officials to combine full-time work with parenthood and leisure without wearing
out. During the term, we want to investigate and make concrete proposals for the gradual
implement shorter working hours.
A better unemployment
Everyone should be able to rely on unemployment insurance provides reasonable terms. we want
A reform with altitude minimum allowance to 410 million and the maximum to 960
crowns and improved opportunities for part-time stamp. Our objective as a first step,
that 80 per cent of workers should be able to get 80 percent of their previous income at
unemployment. Today it is barely one in ten who get it. It must also be easier to
qualify for unemployment insurance. Today, a majority of the unemployed
without compensation from it. All who have been seeking employment for at least three months must be given the right
the basic amount of unemployment insurance.
Active labor market policies
Employment Service should insert active steps that strengthen each individual job seeker's capabilities. The opportunities to receive basic education and vocational training should be greatly improved. Phase 3 will be abolished. With the Left Party's policy,
all unemployed under 25 years old will be offered a job or training place within 90 days.
Availability and the right to work and livelihood
The labor force must become more inclusive, also for people with
different function variations. Discrimination legislation on the lack of availability
must be tightened so that restrictions that limit people's participation are removed.
Employment Service's approach and actions have to be developed and the contribution ceiling at
subsidized employment increased. Employment in work cooperatives and social enterprises should be further stimulated. The prescription of aids should be simplified.

We must reverse the trend
and increase equity between
Women and men in Sweden.
Today women have lower added
ster than men. We want to change
this. We will redistribute power
and resources to women
and men really have the same
power and opportunity to shape
society and their own lives.

Feminism is justice
We must reverse the trend and increase equity between women and men in Sweden. Today women have lower incomes than men. We want to change that. We will redistribute power
and resources so that women and men really have the power and opportunity to shape
society and their own lives. We want to implement a series of strategic reforms
reducing wage and income differentials between women and men and reallocate
responsibility for unpaid household work. Equal pay requires equality in the workplace
in general. Prerequisites for this are created through individualized parental insurance,
the right to full and expanded childcare and eldercare. To get the focus on gender equality
and be able to deliver tangible results, we want to establish an equality authority
responsibility and mandate to govern Sweden towards gender equality.
Individualized parental insurance
Parental insurance must be individualized. The fact that women today take out more than
three quarters of parental leave is one of the main reasons for the structural discrimination against women in employment. During parental leave also established
the pattern that women bear the main responsibility for household work, thus affecting patterns of work and income opportunities throughout life.

Raise women's wages
We make a commitment to increased resources for the public sector to enable to raise women's wages in fields such as health, education and welfare.
Child care at inconvenient hours
We invest in child care at inconvenient hours. If it should be possible to combine careers
in care and service by parenting without being forced to work part time,
required an accessible childcare also on evenings, weekends and nights.

A consent requirement should
inserted in sexual blow pins
tion to mark six
to be based on voluntary participation. we want
also introduce a negligent safety
breach of the legislation.

Consent Legislation and women's right to their bodies
A consent requirement should be introduced into legislation on sexual crimes to highlight that sex should
on a voluntary basis. We also want to introduce a negligent breach of the legislation. One
Such a design captures cases where the perpetrators should be understood to have acted
in an unjustifiable manner. Today's legislation is an expression of an outdated view of the individual's sexual autonomy and signals that women and women's bodies
is available in all situations except when there is violence or coercion. Right
decide over their own bodies is not negotiable and that must also be reflected by
legislation.
Strengthen women's shelters
We want to establish a state foundation support for women's shelters to increase equity between municipalities and enable long-term planning.
Feminist self-defense
We want all schools must provide self-defense for girls during school hours. Above all
it is about strengthening women's self-confidence and learn to defend themselves mentally,
verbally and physically in a world where girls and women are subordinate and vulnerable.
A society free from discrimination
Racism thrives when inequality increases and groups against each other. Therefore,
the fight against inequality and class differences even a struggle against racism and discrimination. Even in times of economic prosperity is racism as a legacy of centuries
of racial thinking and colonialism.
Prioritize work against discrimination and hate crimes
The Left wants to give the Ombudsman additional resources to prevent and combat discrimination
and increasing opportunities for damages. For the Left Party is a fair and equal
society free from racism and discrimination. No one should suffer hatred or discrimination based on skin and hair color, religious or cultural dress, disability or sexual orientation or gender identity and expression. Left wants
therefore give the police a mandate to vigorously prioritize work against hate crimes.
A welfare policy for all
Sweden is still a country with strong norms and expectations about how we should live
our lives. Family policies are still based in large parts of all families look the same
out. We want to see a feminist family policy based on the reality that we are a country
of star families where families are differences and formed differently. In parliament, the council,
regions and municipalities, we will work for all should be treated with knowledge
and respect - regardless of how you live your life.
Ecologically sustainable development
The government's belief in the market make the outward facing social challenges. Environmental threats may operate without effective countermeasures. Climate efforts have stalled and Sweden
may reach very few of our environmental goals. We want to make Sweden a pioneer
the climate area, a land that reduce greenhouse gas emissions through green
investments in energy, housing and transport. We need order in our climate

We want to make Sweden a prior
pioneer in the climate field;
a country that reduces emis-
sions of greenhouse gases by
Green energy investments,
housing and transport.

We want to increase the proportion of eco
logical, locally and
climate smart foods.
We want Sweden to the goal
about 30 percent of the
Swedish farmland
must be certified organic
agricultural land in 2020.

policy. We need a climate budget covering all policy areas and ensuring that
we reach our ambitious goals. In time, all of Sweden's energy production be ecologically
Sustainable hundred percent renewable energy. Loss of biodiversity
must be slowed down to secure the foundations for our future prosperity. In the coming
term of office should be two of Sweden's nuclear reactors shut down.
Reliable train services and improved public transport
Sweden lack rail is the result of privatization, and uppstyckningar
for-funded. To create a reliable train service, we want to create a unified railway system where societal go before privatization and short-term interests. SJ
should be given a new mission where accessibility and low prices priority instead of profit-hunting. We would greatly increase rail investment and increase the share of public transport through state aid to regional and local public transport. A large-scale
experiments with free public transport should be implemented.
Better food
We want to be able to eat better food. We therefore want to implement a bet on "Sweden
- Sustainable food nation "and increase the percentage of organic, local and climate-smart food. We want Sweden to the target of 30 per cent of Swedish agricultural land must be certified organic farmland by 2020. The same year,
half of the public food consumption consist of certified organic
products. We want to establish a strategy to reduce the overall consumption of meat and
increase national self-sufficiency in food.
Sustainable livelihoods
Agriculture, forestry, mineral extraction and fishing should be conducted sustainably.
Natural resources must be used so that human health is not threatened and ecosystems, not
weakens. The Left therefore want to introduce stronger laws to strengthen
environmental considerations. The taxes we want to reduce eutrophication and the amount
pesticides. With the proceeds, we want to give support to that which is sustainable,
and organic agriculture. We want to dramatically increase resources to protect unique natural areas on land and at sea from exploitation.
A new minerallag
Measures must be taken in order to create a sustainable mineral mining in the future. we want
introduce stricter legislation for safeguarding the environment and protecting unique natural areas.
Mineral compensation shall be raised from the current 2 per thousand to 10 per cent. The proceeds from the mineral remuneration is a mining fund set up with the aim to bring community investments to the mining regions and locals.
Non-toxic living
The Left wants to reduce the amount of hazardous chemicals, we, and our children in particular,
exposed. This requires, in some cases to Sweden goes before the EU and before national total ban and limits. We want to endocrine disruptors as Bisphenol A, phthalates and
hazardous brominated flame retardants restricted by national bans. To reduce agriculture's negative impacts on health and the environment, we want to introduce a tax on fertilizers
and increasing taxes on pesticides.
Economic policies for full employment
Taxes have been cut by about 140 billion since the government took office.
Their tax cuts is 27 times as large as the combined efforts
welfare in the municipal sector. The effects can be seen in the growing body of knowledge differences, greater
group sizes at leisure and in preschool and acute staff shortages in health care. And despite
increased mass unemployment characterized the government's policy of lack of socially useful investment to create jobs. Instead, the government continues on this path to lower
tax for those lucky enough to have a job, that most of those who already have the best
set, and increase economic vulnerability of the unemployed and the sick. We intend to pursue a

policy which pushes down unemployment and increase investment. We will never
implement reforms that risk public finances.
Full employment should be
the overriding objective of
economic policy.

Full employment is the goal of economic policy
Full employment should be the overriding objective of economic policy. The
economic frameworks need to be reformed so that an employment supplement
monetary policy and the surplus target is replaced with a goal of balanced budget over
an economic cycle. This is so that we can increase the socially beneficial investments in order
To reduce unemployment.
Investments for job
The level of investment to create jobs must increase substantially. Left will
proposals to increase investment in housing, infrastructure, climate
conversion and training and investments in more employees in welfare.
An active industrial policy
To create the jobs and wealth needed an active industrial policy that invests in
infrastructure, research and education, and actively supports the development of key
industries. Small and medium enterprises are important for the whole of Sweden should live. The Left wants to improve opportunities for small businesses including by removing sick
wages responsibility for the smallest companies.

We want you to pay the same
great treasure at the same income
whether income came
More from salary, pension, a-kas
said or such sickness and
parental benefits. We now want to take
step for equalizing the tax
teklyfta the bourgeois
Government caused.

The housing must byg
Gas removed. The Left Party's goals
is that there will be 40,000
homes a year, of which one
majority shall be rental units.

No tax increase for ordinary wage earners
Tax policy must become fairer and tax revenue must be increased if we are to
to strengthen the common welfare. Left think that tax is payable
for sustainability and well-being distributed according to need. Our policies have low and medium
earners unchanged income tax.
Fair taxation
We want you to pay the same tax on the same income regardless of income
come from salary, pension, unemployment, or, for example, sickness and parental benefits. we want
now take steps to equalize the tax gap that civil government has caused.
The right to a home
There is an acute housing shortage in large parts of Sweden, especially in big cities, and
University towns. Especially great is the lack of rental units. The shortage of rental units primarily affects people who are not established in the housing market or as
need to move but can not afford to buy a home, for example, youth. Young faced a
existence where precarious jobs and temporary housing has become normal and there tomorrow continually uncertain. The country's young people deserve a long-term perspective and a sense of security in
be able to plan their future, moving away from home and the opportunity to start their adult life.
Left protects everyone's right to good housing at a reasonable price, and counteract all
proposals on market rents.
Building rental apartments
The housing shortage must be eliminated. The Left Party's goal is that there will be 40,000
homes a year, of which a majority will be rental units. We want to design a state aid
to stimulate increased housing, specializing in rental units affordable
rents and low energy consumption and best environmental concerns. Rental Auditors shall
not be taxed more heavily than other forms of housing.
Renovate and climate renovate homes
A rehabilitation program of one million housing program will be implemented. we want
through a special support creating conditions for 60,000 homes annually can
refurbished and renovated energy efficient. To increase accessibility for people with
disability, we are introducing an elevator contributions.

Invest in culture
Access to culture should not be dependent on class and gender. Everyone should have access to
high-quality and professionally produced culture, and the opportunity to exercise various
forms of culture. We want to ensure that more cultural creators should be able to live on their artistic
work.
Culture Promise
The Left Party believes that it is time that the statutory responsibility of society culture. we want
issue a cultural commitment to strengthen the position of culture in society through a kulturlag
and to work for a percentage of the national budget should go to the cultural sector.
Arts for all children
All children, regardless of the economy or social status, should be given the opportunity to participate in culture
school activities. For this to be possible, contributions to culture school
term is removed. In a first step, we want to introduce a maximum fee of SEK 300 per semester and
children arts school.
Artistic Freedom
The Left Party is working artists' right to express themselves freely without censorship or
reprisals from the government and authorities. We will work to the undemocratic zero
tolerance toward graffiti should be torn up. The principle of artistic freedom is a cornerstone
in a democracy. At the same time, we will work to ensure that municipalities should introduce so-called open
walls to exert graffiti.

All municipalities and
Council should have equal
placed to offer
its citizens good well
route services and support,
it is good for the whole of Sweden

A good rural development
All local governments should have equal opportunities to offer its citizens good welfare services and service, it's good for the whole of Sweden. It has over time
become increasingly difficult to live, work and conduct business in rural areas. The regional
differences have driven this development. To deal with the problem
required equivalent basic conditions regardless of where you live. Left wants
tax policies that benefit the entire country. It should for example be possible to provide targeted
State aids to industrial communities and rural areas. This creates opportunities for growth
outside the cities. The Left wants the whole of Sweden should live.
Strengthened community services throughout the country
We want to strengthen local public services throughout the country. A better rural support should
is to ensure the availability of pharmacies throughout the country and the system of shop stewards should be made permanent. The state should take more responsibility for services in rural areas. For example, Posten is commissioned to provide quality and equitable service across the country.
The local commercial services in rural areas will be strengthened through support to village shop and fuel stations. The development of more local branches should be supported. One
security police security will be ensured throughout the country.
Green conversion nationwide
In order to consolidate the conditions for a green transition, we want to improve
access to sustainable transportation. The pace of broadband and fiber rollout
must be increased through strengthened national funding. Targeted aid should go to low
busiest railway tracks and public transport in rural areas in the form of, for example byabussar.
Enhanced support for the production of biogas from manure to be introduced throughout the country and especially
support introduced for filling stations with biogas and electricity.
International solidarity
Our work for justice and against greed does not stop at the borders of Sweden. We want
Sweden should be an independent voice for justice, equality and disarmament in the world. Sweden should be military alliances. Our foreign policy is based on solidarity,
those who know poverty and oppression in their everyday life to feel they have an ally

in our country. Sweden will work for fair terms of trade, reduced capital flight and a
Assistance that puts poverty reduction focus.
Ban on arms exports to dictatorships
Sweden to be a voice for peace, security and disarmament. Arms exports to dictatorships,
warring states and countries that commit gross and massive violations of human
rights shall be prohibited.
The right to protection from
persecution is an individual
human rights and the
Never allow influenced by
economic or labor-power
needs. Sweden will hold a
humane and generous refugee
policy. Legal ways to search
Asylum must be established.

A humane refugee policy and legal avenues for asylum seekers
The right to protection from persecution is an individual human right and must
never be allowed to be affected by economic and labor needs. Sweden should pursue a humane and generous refugee policy. Legal channels to seek asylum must be established. The one who
risk persecution on the grounds of sex, sexual orientation, gender expression or gender identity
should be given refugee status in Sweden and treatment of LGBT people in the asylum process should
improved. Sweden's international obligations also calls for a dignified and
legally secure refugee.
A feminist foreign policy
Sweden will bring a feminist foreign policy. The work of women's safety, possible
called for education and livelihood, and the right to health and their own body should be
cornerstones of Sweden's international work. At least 50 percent of the aid should go to
women and at least 10 percent of the aid budget should be earmarked for sexual and
reproductive health and rights (SRHR).
Stronger protection for privacy
Swedish authorities should not contribute to other countries' intelligence services mass
listens Swedish citizen. Mass Wiretapping without concrete suspicion of crime must not
occur. FRA law must therefore be torn up and redone. We want to strengthen the protection of
privacy by introducing in particular the consent of legislation, strengthen
privacy in the workplace and establish a nätombudsman support for those
subjected to threats and abuses online. We want to establish a coherent privacy authority. We say no to the introduction of legislation on monitoring and
secret surveillance involving significant intrusion into personal privacy.
Vote for a welfare to trust
The Left Party policy that can meet the challenges ahead. In this election platform presented the measures required to tackle the climate crisis, combating unemployment, meet the needs of an aging population and to combat the gaps
divided society deal during the civil government.

The Left Party has proposals
which makes it possible to build
a society of trust, built
on solidarity. By bringing
an expansive economic poli
bitch for investment instead of
lowering taxes for the already
rich we make it possible to begin
Building this society already
during the next term.

With the Left Party's policies are solutions that guarantee the welfare non-profit but with a quality that it can be trusted. But we also have proposals
means that we can build new rental units where ordinary people can afford to live, we can create
secure jobs and training paths for the country's young people, we can build a railway with trains
that will come in time and we could equip a school with the resources to provide all pupils equally good
conditions.
The Left Party has proposals that make it possible to build a society of trust, built
on solidarity. By maintaining an expansionary economic policy of investment instead
to reduce the tax for the already rich we make it possible to start building this society
during the next term. This is a society where jobs are safe, where
Women and men are equal and where kindness and compassion, not greed, is
the driving force in social development. Vote for the Left Party on 14 September.
