BUILD A BETTER COUNTRY
To govern is to do. And to have to have clear ideas and capacity
execution. It is not governed by words or good intentions. It is governed by
actions that produce results.
What is important is not only govern but govern well. And govern well requires some
rather than accumulating decisions. It should also be clear priorities and directions. Do not
any decision is good and all deserve to be put into practice. They are good
decisions which lead us to a better country.
Governing is also dream. It is to imagine five years in office and think about everything
good you can do. Therefore, when designing our government program
We decided to focus on a specific day. We wanted to think from the first
March 2020. This will be the last day of our government. That will be the day when
other citizen chosen by the Uruguayan will be receiving the presidential sash. And we
We dedicated to think that we would deliver the country at that time.
The answer to which we summarized in four ideas. We want to deliver a country
who cares for his people. We want to deliver a country of opportunities. We want to deliver
a country truly productive. And we want to deliver a country proud of its
republican institutions.
That is the country we dream, and what we propose is organized around that
sleep. The concrete steps we have planned are steps in that direction. Y
Sorry that there is urgency. The Uruguayan economy has been growing for years and
economic environment will continue to benefit us for some time. We are challenged
to turn that economic growth and sustainable human development. We have
now the challenge to leverage growth for building a better country.
We call on everyone to perform that task.

Luis Lacalle Pou
Jorge Larrañaga

Agenda National Party government
chapter 1

A country that cares
its people

Agenda National Party government
chapter 1



A country that cares for its people

Introduction
A country is more than a sum of individuals. A country is a "we" composed of
people who share projects, hopes, needs, concerns. Being country
Uruguayan means taking each account.
Uruguay builds a better offer protection and support for all. No country
it may be a good place to live if only good for a few. We want
build a better Uruguay. We want to build a country that cares for its people.
A country that cares for its people is, above all, a country that takes seriously the issue of
security. We're not caring if people are victims of robberies and homicides
because the state is not there to protect her. We're not caring if children
They have to grow up without a father or without a mother because it took violence. Not us
we are taking care if older people are injured on the street. We are not
caring if people can not leave home because it does not dare to leave her alone.
Restore security is to restore the quality of coexistence.
Caring for our people also means organizing health services in a way
it is truly universal and integrated. We have a good health system if
we promise a lot of people that will be able to be addressed in a mutualistic, but later
You can not afford tickets or waiting weeks for an appointment. Check rates
integrated health if small inland communities are relegated and isolated. Do not
We have an integrated health if too many places ambulances and other missing.
Caring for our people means paying attention to the great problem of addiction, and
offer solutions to addicts and their families. It also means having a good system
prevention of alcohol and drugs, which has the broad political center
sports with social sense.
Caring for our people means having a social security that effectively protects
Uruguayans who reach the age of retirement, instead of turning it into a field of
ideological battles. We do not have a good social security system if we force
blind workers to choose their pension scheme, rather than assure maximum
protection we are able to offer.
Caring for our people means not to be indifferent to the drama in our daily lives
streets and highways, with the balance of lives lost and serious injuries. The
Road safety must become a national priority and must be handled
professionalism.
Caring for our people means having effective policies for environmental protection,
Uruguayans matter because we are not only those who live today, but also
our children and our grandchildren.
Each Uruguayan has. Children, youth, seniors and those still

they were not born. Uruguayan matter working, those who study and those who do not
They found their way. Imported those who have much to give and those who need to receive.
No one should be left behind.
We do not want to rule by dividing or encouraging resentment. We want a country where
be nice to live again. We want a country that cares for its people.

CITIZEN SECURITY
Each year are committed in our country about 20 thousand robberies and hundreds of killings. The
thefts reported over 100 thousand (almost 300 per day). The general climate of insecurity
It has affected us all. Until not long ago, Uruguay was among the countries
safest in the world. Now we are far from it. While countries such as Spain,
Italy, England and France have less than one homicide per 100,000 inhabitants, we
we have more than 6. That is not typical of a country that cares for its people. Protect life,
physical integrity and security of the home is a basic condition for all of us
live in peace and tranquility. If that fails care, everything else is threatened.
The deteriorating security situation is not due to missing policemen. In fact, Uruguay is the country
with more police per inhabitant in Latin America. We have 876 policemen per 100 thousand
inhabitants, while in Mexico (a country with enormous security problems) there are 448
agents and Chile (a country that has solved the problem better than us) there are only 318.
Police are not lacking. What is lacking is organization, leadership ability and legal standards
suitable. What is missing are good well-executed policies. Only then can we take care
really all Uruguayans.
The current difficulties
Frente Amplio governments have failed in managing security. That's because
for many reasons, but some of the most important are these:
• The governments of the Frente Amplio has addressed the issue with a vision anchored in
past: instead of seeing the police as citizens responsible for caring for their
fellow citizens have seen as an old enemy that must be controlled. A
Police institution as not handled from the distrust and hostility.
• The Broad Front government adopted a naive and ideological insight
the origins of crime and ways to combat it. They believe that the crime it can be
control solely on their social causes and confuse authoritarianism
with healthy exercise of authority.
• The governments of the Frente Amplio have deteriorated the regulatory framework Police
You need to run and weakened its image before the public. Nor have
helped to improve coordination with the judiciary. As a result, the sense
of vulnerability and skepticism they were extended in police ranks.
• The governments of the Frente Amplio, which have generally been bad organizationally,
They were particularly ineffective in this field. An accumulation of errors
Police turned the organization into a blurred where gaps abound, the
overlays and the absence of control.
• The governments of the Frente Amplio were bad buying technology for
compliance with security tasks. For example, many of the difficulties
911 Operating result from buying a lousy Chinese team,

despite enormous efforts and many unforeseen expenses, still has problems
until today.
• Broad Front Governments have not done a good resource management
humans. There is a poor recruitment policy, poor remuneration policy
and grossly inadequate efforts on training and education. In addition,
leave they have left many people with experience and knowledge of the terrain before
have the necessary relays.
Our vision: a well organized police and supported by society
Our government will give priority to the transformation of the police as a condition for
recover a living quality. How we will work be geared
by the following principles:
• Prevention as a first barrier against the growth of crime. Deteriorating
security environment does not occur in a vacuum. Besides a socio-economic context, a cultural environment that is favorable. Factors on
which must act the increased levels of violence are counted in the
interpersonal relationships, loss of function as public spaces
meeting places and the expansion of a climate of "anything" that starts
little faults and passing situations of harassment and abuse.
• symbolic and legal hierarchy of Police. To that police personnel can
adequately perform its task, it is important that police be perceived as
a fundamental state institution and one of the pillars of coexistence
civilized. For that we must support, protect and prioritize the police in the exercise
its task. You can only maintain order who has the support of all
society.
• Human resources as a priority. You can not have a good police without good
police. The organization and technology help, but not enough by themselves. Is
policies need to improve recruitment, training and remuneration. Also
Needless to create conditions for a proper exercise of the task. For example, no
it is reasonable that the police are neighbors of the people who should
monitor or stop. It is difficult for police to act firmly if he knows that his wife and
their children are in danger. So relocation program is essential.
• Organizational reform. Improved safety standards requires a better
use of available resources. For example, currently is
It has the largest number of patrols in recent years, but its use
it is not efficient. Needless to improve coordination and enters the sectional units
phones, as well as recover a control unit that has been lost. Reform
organizational must also extend to the prison system, which has become
in an embarrassment for the Uruguayans. In Uruguay today, have better
prisons is a way of defending human rights.
• Reform the legal framework. The police need better legal tools to
the fulfillment of his task. Also it needs to strengthen the link between the
police force and the judiciary. It is also necessary to improve several figures
structures such as the protection of victims, witnesses and informants to combat
especially complex forms of crime as related to drugs, violence
domestic and sexual abuse.

Our proposals
The main initiatives we intend to push from the government are
following:
Plan to improve the living
The culture of aggression and violence feeds on small things: the deterioration of
neighborly relations, harassment in places of study, the loss of respect in
the transit. Remove this culture it requires a multidimensional action that should
involved the state and society. Among the actions that are part of this Plan
They include:
• Articulation of community policing with the Centers for Integration and Citizenship
be installed in vulnerable areas (see the "Social Policy" in a country
opportunities).
• Participation of representatives of the police in the Social Observatory on Addictions
(See "Social Policies" in a country of opportunities section).
• Participation of representatives of the police in the design of the Culture program
positive (See "Culture" in a country of opportunities)
• Support for strengthening the judiciary and the creation of new courts
Conciliation and Mediation Centres (by law granting the latter the power
to impose community work in case of default).
• Development of new experiences of local mediation, in coordination with the
departmental governments and MIDES (with special involvement Centers
Integration and Citizenship).
• Development in the field of judiciary, new mechanisms of justice
restorative, prioritizing installation in vulnerable areas.
• Resize and strengthen nationwide specialized police units
care for children, adolescents and women.
Squares and parks insurance plan
A condition for healthy living is the existence of safe community spaces,
well equipped and aesthetically friendly. This is something we've been missing.
Many of our parks and squares have expelled vulnerable people (such as children
and seniors) due to insecurity and deteriorating living. With the purpose of
reverse that process, the following measures shall apply:
• Agreements with provincial governments to restore and redesigning squares and
parks in all departments, so as to make them more friendly
all age groups and consistent with public safety criteria.
• Installation of children's corners and equipment for physical exercise
spaces that permit.
• Coordination with UTE to ensure in the areas of recreation and their setting a
adequate lighting sustained over time.
• Agreements between the departmental governments, private actors and organizations
civil society to ensure the maintenance of the spaces recovered.
• Full implementation of the Law on Misdemeanors.
• Full implementation of the regulations on noise pollution.
• Coordination with the Ministry of Social Development to ensure coordination with the Leadership Program
Community, the Integration and Citizenship Centers, and the National System

Volunteering (See "Social Policies" in a country of opportunities)
• Continuous presence of police personnel.
• Create a service charge of generating Interdisciplinary Consulting
evaluations of public safety when new kernels are projected
housing or public spaces are changed. This body will advise the
departmental governments and private large scale enterprises.
Sport Insurance Plan
Until not long ago, attending a sporting event was a walk to the
family. Today only assist families and many courts they have been left to the
"Hooligans". The stands have become not only unsafe, but function as
schools of violence and transgression.
Broad Front governments were limited to live with this phenomenon, like
inevitable. In his view, until there the last financial problem is resolved or
social you can not do much except the police away. But international experience
It shows that's not true. In England many said that hooliganism
they were an inevitable social phenomenon, but it soon became clear that, with determination and good
policies, the problem was reversible.
We want the courts once again become a friendly place for families, and
the grandstands again become a school of civilized coexistence. For that propose:
• Installation of control mechanisms of identity at the entry points to the
sporting events.
• Improved camera systems in major sports venues.
• Creating a record of hooliganism, which will be paid by complaint
police before the competent court with the guarantees of due process.
• Adoption of a law (a "code of swells") setting out rights and
duties, and includes sanctions to prevent access to sports venues
who are identified as violent.
• Reinforcement of police presence within the sports venues, as well as its
environment.
• Coordination between the police and the clubs to establish measures
additional security.
Plan for upgrading policing
The police exercise a high risk function and of great importance to society.
To enable them to accomplish their task, they should feel supported and protected. A police
feel insecure is a cop who will not be able to protect us.
To improve the performance of the police function, we propose the following measures:
• salary increase at all levels. The country needs a better paid and more police
focused on their professional tasks. One aspect is to solve the various
Police received the items unify and become part of the salary. Through
adequate reorganization, can move in this direction without generating costs
Additional. There has to be an attractive police career that motivates both the
personal development and the growing remuneration.
• Replacing the current uniform for a more clearly distinguishable clothing
and in keeping with the dignity of the task. International experience shows that the
clothing helps the recognition of the police as a representative icon

authority.
• Development of protocols to situations that police officers face
more frequently. The logging makes more predictable performance of the
police (avoiding mistakes and excesses) while giving police personnel safety
they will not face unexpected problems as a result of their decisions.
Protocols should be developed in consultation with the judiciary and various actors
social.
• Commissioning of a housing plan for police, beginning with the effective
use of the fund which is fed by contributions from active and retired police officers.
The police have the usufruct of housing while on active duty and will
to be owners after retirement if they have not committed serious irregularities (which
It works as an incentive for good performance). The houses must be located
outside areas with higher crime rate. Avoid building
exclusive complex for police, favoring the distribution of their homes
the urban fabric.
• Reorganization of Police Health in order to improve the quality of their services.
The contributions made by the police officers should be poured directly to Health
Police and not to general revenues.
• depth study and due consideration of occupational diseases.
• Improving the system of insurance and pension death and disability as
result of acts of service. Speedy and effective implementation of the right to housing
for widows of fallen police officers in direct acts of service (On these points see
the "social security" in a country that cares for its people).
HRM
Police have many effective, but high turnover and training level
increasingly poor. There is also a significant deficit in the formation of new
officers, which is complemented by the high number of officers trained and experienced
they are going to retire. It is estimated that in the course of 2014 could result in thousands
retreats, in part due to the absence of good retention policies and partly because
politically motivated decisions. If nothing is done to correct the course, we will
to a police less and less prepared, less experienced and less knowledgeable
terrain.

To reverse this process propose the following measures, which are complementary
those listed in the plan for upgrading:
• Redefine the policy of recruitment and induction of staff.
• Strengthen the officer corps, through a combination of measures including
wage improvements, strengthening the initial training and opportunities
specialization.
• Create salary incentives to attract qualified personnel missing today (from drivers
effective computer until adequate preparation).
• To deepen the process of concentration in the Departmental Schools
smaller set of Regional Schools.
• Strengthen training policies and ongoing training, increasing
availability of grants obtained through agreements.
• Promote specialized staff in key issues: patrol, investigations,
computers crash or assault, negotiators, domestic violence, crimes care

sex, etc.
• Reviewing mechanisms for allocating roles and tasks. Based selection
Competency Profile. Strengthening monitoring mechanisms and
creation of a performance evaluation system.
• Create a plan to leverage the knowledge and experience of officers
Police removed by way of summoning them to participate in programs
Training, training and analysis. Because the frame could also
part of the Squares and safe parks plan.
• Return emphasis on physical preparation and permanently strengthen and
continuous training in the safe use of weapons.
• Creation of a Research Institute of Criminological Studies and victimology,
It would work as a decentralized agency of the Ministry of Interior. His homework
be to provide knowledge and scientific knowledge of nature, in coordination
with the university system. It aims to create in the medium term career
College of Criminology and Victimology.
Organizational reform of the police
The police has a lot of human resources and with equipment
which, while not ideal, would allow better performance than today. A reorganization
General services is essential to achieve improved efficiency. Between
other measures to be applied, we propose:
• Create a new organic-functional structure aimed at ensuring better management.
It is essential to recover the control unit, which has been lost in recent years.
• Strengthen sectional Commissioners across the country, and return to prominence
the curator.
• Recovery of the principle of internal authority. Effective application of the system
disciplinary, complemented by an incentive system that rewards performance
outstanding, from assessments by an independent tribunal.
• Reorganize the territorial deployment, taking into account population density
the different areas (urban, sub-urban, rural) and the characteristics of the
criminal activity.
• Creation of a subsidiary National Guard Ministry of the Interior,
jurisdiction throughout the national territory. That force highly trained and duly
Equipped will be responsible complement the fight against crime in those areas
where higher crime rates recorded.
• Heavy use of vehicle control system and creating incentives character
General that reward quick and effective response.
• will advance in the radar installation borders, through coordination between
Ministry of Interior and Defense to optimize the use of radar and
scanners.
• In Montevideo, improve coordination between the system and security cameras
operational response.
• Regulate and organize the deployment and duties of private security in their interrelation
to public safety.
• Creating a Mobile Immediate Response Unit in cases of violence
gender and domestic. The unit will be composed of trained personnel
interdisciplinary, to ensure comprehensive care.

• Creating a system of destruction of body armor obsolete it
Eco-Friendly (On this point see the section "Environment"
In a country that cares for its people).
• reorganization to better combat cattle rustling. Strengthening BEPRA
and creation of new instruments (in coordination with INAC) to attack
illegal trading mechanisms task.
• Reorganization of Internal Affairs, giving it effective means of combating
acts of corruption. To assure effective, we must move on
formalization of procedures and create a system of continuous auditing.
08005000 • Improve service, so that not only allow you to receive and process so
effective complaints from users but also gather opinions and recommendations
aimed at improving the quality of police services.
• Periodic measurement of user satisfaction levels.
• Certification of quality of police services, through agreements with
certifying institutions.
Prison reform
Prisons have become an embarrassment for the Uruguayans. Far from being
places to compliance with fair punishment and rehabilitation, have become
in schools and in true crime underworld where human rights are violated.
We want to change this. Human rights do not matter
They are only those that were violated for decades, but which are being violated today. Because
We propose the following measures:
• Effective separation of the prison population by type of offense, seriousness of the
penalties and degree of danger. It is imperative to cut the mechanisms of reproduction
culture of crime.
• Creating microcárceles oriented vocational training, reintegration in the
formal education and reform through labor.
• Creating self-sustaining agricultural colonies to be co-managed by the
jailed. These experiences lead to low hazard and processed
will promote the integration of the family. It is proposed to organize some projects
pilot, calling the Parole Board and imprisoned, and others
civil society.
• differential Management some establishments. It is proposed to move towards a
mixed model where some prisons are gerenciadas by the State and others by
private organizations through public calls. In selecting proposals
Rehabilitation plans populations are especially taken into account
specific prison.
• training and monitoring program for police personnel manager
contact with the prison population.
• Improving internal security systems in prisons and
environments (security cameras, specialized patrol, etc.).
Legal reforms
A significant improvement in the security environment requires legal instruments that fit
to the new conditions, while guaranteeing respect for rights
fundamental of all. We do not want an impotent legal order before growth

crime. Nor do we "trigger". We are against the abusive use of force.
We want security rule of law.
Some of the changes we promote are:
• Reform of the Code of Childhood and Adolescence. In its current version,
Code provides that a history of juvenile offenders should be removed
when the offender reaches the age of criminal responsibility, except in the case of crimes
very serious (such as murder or rape) and only if the judge decides. In addition,
history are preserved only two years after their fourteenth year. In
the facts, these provisions have acted as an incentive for less
They commit crimes, often instigated by adults. We propose that
mandatory background remain so for all crimes and for
more time. It is also necessary to increase the ceiling of the penalties for
habitual offenders who commit very serious offenses.
• Change the Prison Law to conform to current system conditions.
Creating the National Prison Institute as a decentralized agency of the Ministry
the Interior.

HEALTH AND ADDICTIONS
The creation of the National Integrated Health System in 2008 marked the beginning of
a new stage in the management of health care. The general principles of the
are widely shareable reform: commitment to universality, emphasis on prevention,
priority to primary care, joint regional providers, definition
basket and mandatory application of criteria costoutilidad cost-effectiveness and performance. It is also sharable joint financing techniques more
complexity through the National Resources Fund.
However, six years after its implementation, the reform effort has shown health
major weaknesses. To put it briefly: what was built is not a system, nor is
national, or is integrated. Overlaps, gaps and lack of optimization
resources are attacking a good overall result.
The current difficulties
Although there are many operational problems, the main difficulties overcome
They are as follows:
• Citizens are incorporated into the formal economy pay several times
their health coverage costs. Pay VAT and income tax, part of the proceeds
It is intended to finance health; They pay the FONASA, which finance their own
attention and solidarity of others; departmental pay taxes,
where money goes for polyclinics of the municipalities. This increased effort
tax was not associated with an improvement in health indicators or the
accessibility of services.
• The integration between different lenders no longer has a good intention
just translated into deeds. Especially in the public subsector, a person
consultation service where you are diagnosed with a health problem, but it has

•

•

•

•

•
•

•

access to medication or other treatment. Should, therefore, move to
other service. Probably then seek support in a municipal clinic and
undergo a validation process recipes. All this means big losses
time and money, both for users and for the state.
The incorporation of the NHIS mutual generated in many Uruguayans one
expectation of improvement is only partly fulfilled. On the one hand, recharging
of mutuals increased waiting times and affected the quality of service. He
resource waiting list is extended using way as in the
public sector. On the other hand, the price of tickets (beyond those granted
at no cost) and other costs associated made access to a mutual
it would become illusory for a significant number of users.
The system has big problems of inequity. The imbalance between the strict
prestacionales controls on goals that the MSP has on providers
private and practically no controls on the public sector does say
he who goes to a private provider is served in a manner consistent with the
national legislation in force, while the second is unprotected.
Inequity problems also occur in the territorial dimension. The
absence of adequate policies means that there is a very unequal distribution
of health professionals between Montevideo and the rest of the country. Nor is there
incentives for professionals to move away from the capital continue forming
and updated. In addition, bureaucratic barriers prevent
joint between providers and, therefore, integration of material resources
and humans who are present in the same geographical location. There are also
significant deficiencies in the systems and transfer times centers
reference. All this has negative consequences on the quality of care and
the opportunities that are available to users inside.
There is a serious problem of under-utilization of installed capacity. If more
ASSE is known (the backbone of the country) that in recent years saw increasing
actual budget by more than 40% while losing 200,000
users. Despite these favorable conditions, the quality of care provided is
It has deteriorated. The main cause are serious management problems.
There is a significant lack of human resources, in some specialties
medical and nursing graduates.
The financing model raises questions about its continuity. The public subsector
It is inefficient and private providers have created a strong dependence
from the state. Overall, the system is accumulating deficits: in 2012
MEF transferred 3,200 million and 6,000 million in 2013. In
current economic conditions it has been sustainable, but prospects
future are worrisome. The rising cost of treatments and constant
technological innovations make a trend expected to increase costs.
Difficulties continue lowering labor informality and the possibility of a
cooling economy raise questions about income. All this forces
seek a strong improvement in the efficiency levels.
Decision-making power is concentrated in the state, leaving little margin
for good management decisions by lenders. That power
Central is frequently used on a discretionary basis. For example, not
It is applying the legal provision requiring lower budgetary resources

ASSE intended as increase the resources it receives from the
FONASA. New services providers are also imposed without giving the
corresponding funding.
• The health reform has increased the bureaucratic burden on the
providers. They are frequently requests the same information several times,
ordered in different ways by different agencies MSP. Do not
rare are the conflicting directives from different departments. The
providers must devote significant amounts of time and human resources
this kind of requirements.
• There are problems of institutional design that prevent the implementation of appropriate policies.
For example, quotas for specialty residents are not set by the Ministry
Public Health but by the chairs of the Faculty of Medicine of the University
of the Republic. This prevents the supply of professionals plan required by the
Health System.
• As for addiction, the deterioration of the situation has exceeded the capacity
State response. Today there is not a network of promotion, prevention,
treatment, rehabilitation and reintegration to work seamlessly. In recent
years have ignored the strengths of NGOs, removing subsidies
They had, which has weakened the answers that some of them could contribute.
Our vision: the necessary reforms
Today the difficulties and risks on the horizon make us think
and run a new generation of reforms in the area of ​​health. Especially make
missing:
• Reforms aimed at ensuring universal coverage, at the same time
promote health equity between different social groups and geographic regions.
• Organizational reforms that ensure operation of services more
suited to the needs of the population, more sensitive to diversity
demands and better sustainable results over time.
• Reform public policies that improve the health of communities through
widespread access to primary care and proper coordination of the
public and private services at the local level.
• Reforms in the style of leadership that replace disproportionate influence
command and control systems, overcome the existing conflict and allow for
more creative use of available resources.
Our proposals
The main initiatives we intend to push from the government are
following:
Changes in the governance of the health system
The Ministry of Public Health and the JUNASA should focus on its role of regulators
a complex system consisting of a public subsector (ASSE, Banco de Seguros,
BPS, Police and the Armed Forces Health, Hospital das Clinicas, municipalities) and
private subsector (41 IAMCs which function prepayment, private insurance).
For fulfilling this task we propose to introduce governing the following
modifications:

• Improving the provision of benefits and services goals, including its scope and
giving them verifiable indicators. The fulfillment of these goals must be
variables associated capitation payments.
• Evaluation of performance and compliance with standards of care equal
between public and private providers. Measure and strictly enforce the
provisions on access times for consultation, diagnostic techniques,
treatments and surgical procedures, applying economic sanctions for
default.
• Have a system of information accessible to the entire population, containing
the relevant variables of the institutions in relation to the service it provides to its
users.
• Establish minimum service quality levels, below which the user
will be able to free choice regarding health care provider.
• Enter the variable "perceived quality by the user" in performance evaluation
of health care providers.
• Make available the Family Allowances controls related to pregnancy and
early childhood.
• Articulate the health care programs with social programs implementation
territorial (see "Social policies" in a country of opportunities).
Plan to improve efficiency
There can be a health system that claims to be universal and sustainable over time
if health services are not efficient. To this end it is proposed:
• ASSE Regionalize transferring facilities, resources and decision making.
Attach the new regional units to departmental governments.
• To professionalize ASSE hospital management, hiring managers
professionals who do not necessarily come from the health sector.
• Apply the public sector the figure of the management contract that applies to all
private providers. The contract must involve the transfer of resources to the achievement
outcomes of care, accessibility and spending, and agreed between the JUNASA
the medical center.
• Establish economic and professional recognition for all the staff,
from meeting the objectives of the management contract.
• Run an infrastructure plan, in the three-year term, resolve
locative and equipment problems for 50% of beds in the public sector.
100% must be reached within five years.
• Create an area of ​​public-private coordination between private agents
select, acquire and operate high-tech equipment, avoiding competition
costly and unjustified between providers.
• Promote through stimulus generation and public-private partnerships between
private agents, with logging and systematization, which make it easy
joint service for fast and quality care for all
regions.
• Remove barriers to the import of medical equipment, while
generated agreements with lenders to generalize access to new
technologies.
• Install a mechanism analysis and review of drug prices and

consumables compared to other countries in the region. Meet legal deadlines
to pay suppliers and other measures to reduce costs.
• Updated list of techniques that are financed by the National Fund
Resources. Some of them (installation of pacemakers, conventional dentures)
They can be transferred to service providers, with consequent counterparts
economic. The FNR should concentrate on the newer, more expensive techniques and
more complex.
• Promote the development of public policy on rare diseases, generating
developments in the regulatory framework for detection and treatment.
New human resources policy
The proper development of the health system requires a new personnel policy
remove dysfunctions. The application of an alternative policy would bring benefits both
for the population and for the lending institutions. The main measures
we propose are:
• Review payment for medical act, incorporating criteria such as the complexity of
the task, the time commitment, the clinical results, the proper use of
diagnostic techniques and drug dispensing.
• Create an incentive system that favors so no compulsory filing
of health professionals inside. Incentives should include supplements
salary (paid by uprooting), but also tax breaks and other
benefits (eg for pension purposes, counted as one and a half
each year of ongoing activity in rural areas). We also need to create good
mechanisms respite rest, training and retraining, as well as take
consider the life cycle of the professionals (eg, associated needs
the education of children).
• Set quotas from the MSP residence, according to an estimate of demand
by specialty.
• expedite mechanisms revalidation of foreign diplomas.
• To prioritize the specialty of family doctor from a training plan
specific university, assigning a defined role in the care model and
adequate remuneration of the task.
• Reduce the wage gap between medical and non-medical staff.
• Create a digital literacy program mandatory for health workers to
reach 100% electronic record of the events held.
• Effective implementation of the legislation providing for the incompatibility between the activity
care and ownership of institutions and companies providing assistance, technical
diagnostics, medicines, supplies and other services used by providers
funded health FONASA.
First Level of Care Plan for all
The First Level of Care (PNA) is the set of resources and organized procedures
to meet the basic needs and the most frequent demands of the population.
This level is the entrance and the first contact with the health system. A
proper functioning of the PNA, attached to a harmonious relationship with the other levels,
locally solves a high percentage of health problems, selecting
and referring cases that require other levels of care. Strengthening the PNA

It has been proposed to improve the health care of the population in a
long time. However, despite its constant references, it has always been seen
relegated.
The plan has three objectives: to achieve 100% access of the population to the first
level of care; resolved locally, progressively, between 80 and 85% of the
health needs; ensure accessibility to all users, regardless
their economic, geographical, physical condition, etc. To achieve these objectives
We propose:
• Incorporate Family and Community Medicine as a specialty and assign system
of corresponding cápitas.
• Integrating Family Medicine teams formed by family doctors, nurses
academics and other professionals (social workers, nutritionists, etc.).
• Facilitate the accreditation in Family Medicine, rural doctors and other professionals
based in sparsely populated localities, through the signing of agreements
with the university system.
• Establish a system of performance evaluation professionals assigned to
this level through regular audits of negative events.
• Incorporate technical supervision teams at the departmental, regional and national levels.
• Promote public-private complementarity and coordination of different
state providers at this level of care.
• Establish procedures for referral and counter-referral, through the creation and
protocols for local, departmental, regional and national subsystems.
• Ensure full access to all facilities where work services
PNA.
• Coordination of actions between the health system and the education system in order
to include education in disease prevention and accident plans
study of primary and secondary education.
• Develop a plan of child oral health preventive actions starting with
from pregnancy and will include monitoring visits to take place in schools.
Territorial equity plan
The geographical or territorial inequality is one of the major shortcomings of the health system,
to the point of questioning their status as "National System". Overcoming this problem will
a priority. The main measures to be implemented are:
• functionally integrate existing services, linking rural areas, towns,
Departmental hospitals and regional or national benchmarks. Must be
have the necessary logging, written, validated and socialized to all
actors, including algorithms of care and coverage of shipments.
• Incorporate information and communication technologies (ICTs) as a tool
arrival to ensure all people, regardless of their place of
residence. This activity will be coordinated with the Plan of Development of Rural Family
(See the "Social Policy" In a country of opportunities section).
• Implement rounds with diagnostic health technologies (ultrasound, laboratory
clinical, mammography, etc.), with reference to the Project Sesame
Florida Municipality.
• Training community workers, using local resources (eg,
rural) police to attend emergencies and work to

distance from health professionals.
• Define strategic points within the country to organize a shuttle service
Air medical emergencies.
• Organize a network of critical care throughout the interior, by supplementing
Public-private. The volume of purchases of services currently performed by ASSE
allow fund the reopening of some departmental centers in the subsector
public.
• Creation of cardiac Black River north IMAES. The country can not continue
accepting that half the country is devoid of institutes for
to the most common cardiac pathologies.
• Rapid implementation of the Law on assisted reproduction, ensuring that their
benefits reach people throughout the country.
• In Montevideo, finalize the creation of the Hospital del Cerro from the strengthening
and development of the current Coordinated Center.
Early care and rehabilitation of addictions
While all addictions deserve attention, the priority today is addiction to pasta
base, destructive of personal autonomy and generating violence. The country is not
currently he prepared to support consumers and their families. The bells
prevention, early uptake and therapeutic action should be supplemented to
reduce the impact of the problem.
The following measures are proposed:
• Education about addiction in schools, clubs and centers
Community. Since most of the addictive behaviors are born
early, it is essential to start early. The educational work will take place in
under the Responsible Fatherhood and grandparents programs, and Spaces
Community (see the "Social Policy" in a country of opportunities).
ANEP also coordinate with the incorporation of content plans
study and update activities for teachers.
• Creation of a National Addiction that integrates state services
(MIDES, ANEP, municipalities) with non-governmental organizations in
various community settings. The system will use as points of support centers
Integration and Citizenship. One of its components is the Observatory
Social Addictions (for both points, see the section "Social Policy" in
A country of opportunities).
• Program of rehabilitation of people addicted to the consumption of cocaine base, monitoring
rehabilitated and support the family. The program will have three components.
First, a set of actions aimed at early detection of
consumers, that is, before the family breakup. A second component
public and private inpatient detoxification centers, funded by capitation
FONASA. Third, post-admission monitoring, which plays a central role
an adult who, with the consent of the patient, assumes the role of mentoring and support.
The tutor will receive support and frame from state institutions or
private present in the area.
• Repeal of Law 19,172, which legalized the production, distribution and sale
marijuana by the State, and analysis of possible alternative standards.
Measures against illegal drug trafficking will be accentuated.

SPORT
Sport is no longer seen as a simple recreational activity to be considered
a basic component of human and social development. The sport has
beneficial health effects, which is part of the prevention barriers
health. It favors the normal psychological and emotional development of individuals, thus
helping to promote wellness. Conveys values, because it teaches cooperate,
compete fairly, to lose and to win. Create social bonds, weakening dynamics
exclusion and marginalization. It helps build community identities, strengthening
the sense of belonging and the bonds of solidarity. Additionally, it is a barrier
effective against drug use and alienates many teenagers and young culture
crime. For all these reasons, a country that cares for its people should have a policy
sports social sense.
UNESCO has recognized the social importance of physical culture and sport, so
It recommends that states take responsibility for the development of appropriate policies
for its development. Uruguay has been a pioneer in this, since he created in 1911
National Commission of Physical Education. But that momentum was not sustained over time.
Between 2012 and 2013, public investment in sports policies fell from 132.9 million
pesos to 82.6 million, the balance of budget execution, which is
a decrease of 38 percent. Contrary to what one might think, this decline did not
It constitutes a saving. International statistics show that for every dollar
invests in sport, a health savings generated at least $ 8.
Current problems
Beyond the fall in resources, the Frente Amplio government did not have a policy
sports worthy of the name. There are some little executed action plans and
some isolated actions (such as the installation of equipment for activities
physical in public spaces) but there is no strategic direction or adequate
integration initiatives. The main problems to face are:
• Very uneven development of physical culture. While there are a significant number of
Uruguayans who performed physical activity in personal or collective form, remains
large sections of the population not only maintained but in a sedentary lifestyle
not aware of what that means in terms of impact.
• Very little coordination between the various initiatives to promote sport
and physical culture. The coordination of activities between the state sector and the sector
Private is almost nonexistent. Within the state sector itself there is little coordination
between, for example, what is done within and policies developed ANEP
by provincial governments.
• Very little coordination in policy design. There is not enough coordination between
sports policy, health policy and social policy.
• Under-utilization of installed capacity. The Uruguay made an effort in the past
important for building spaces sports, many of which they are now
poor state of conservation and are used for other purposes. Nor does it make a
enough use of some private facilities (eg, gyms
built by local clubs) that could be used for work programs
public financing.
• insufficient legal framework and little known. The country has for some years

a Sports Development Act and Eradication of Violence. That law,
only 15 articles, deserves to be reviewed and improved. But it is also important
sensitize the different actors to make better use of the
possibilities.
• Little support to the sport of high competition. The sport of high competition is
expensive and makes it difficult for small countries. But it is also an opportunity
to promote the country's image and creates models that can stimulate
commitment to people with physical culture. Considering the GDP per capita
Uruguay has achieved, some are supporting this type of activity.
Our vision: a policy of sport with social content
We aim to push from the government a national sport policy that articulates with
social, health and educational policies to encourage healthy lifestyles,
transmit values ​​and build interpersonal bonds.
Playing sports is part of the private lives of individuals and, therefore, is
an activity that should be strengthened by way of voluntariness. It is also a
activity often driven by NGOs meet
an important task and have accumulated much experience. So we assign the State
a guiding and regulating, but not substitute or auditor role. Its role is to design and promote
strategies for the short, medium and long term to enable join forces and mobilize
capacity for initiative that exists in society. The task is not to force, but to promote and
to stimulate.
Our proposals
The main actions we intend to push from the government, in coordination
in autonomous entities, state governments, municipalities and private entities, are the
following:
Sport and education plan
The overall objective of the plan is to strengthen the presence of physical education in education
formal, from primary to tertiary level. For that propose:
• Achieve synchronization program content and proper sequence
teaching objectives, promoting opportunities for dialogue and coordination between
different levels and branches of education. This task should play
an important Ministry of Education and Culture, paper through the Commission
Education Coordinator.
• To promote a broader concept of physical education as a curricular subject,
including training in healthy lifestyles, eating habits, hygiene
muscle and body, etc.
• Creation of a continuous training program for teachers of Education
Physics, to ensure the maintenance of quality by accessing courses
update training workshops and stays abroad.
• Generate a revalidation and updating mechanism that allows access to title
Licensed to physical education teachers who graduated prior to the
ISEF incorporation of the University of the Republic.
• Promote the creation of another regional headquarters ISEF in southwest China, as the

They are present in Montevideo, Maldonado and Paysandu.
• compensate for deficiencies in schools and colleges in the area of ​​sports facilities
through a policy of agreements with clubs and other nearby institutions
have idle capacity during school hours.
• In accordance with departmental governments, restore and equip spaces
Sports that are in disrepair, and prioritize use schools
and nearby high schools during school hours.
• Promote the organization of student competitions to inter-institutional level,
departmental and national, in order to stimulate the rooting at school
and promote the values ​​of respect, teamwork, tolerance, inclusion, loyalty,
fair play, personal and collective effort. Competencies should cover
all Olympic disciplines and serve as an instrument to combat
dropout.
• Create a mechanism for early detection of talents that work from
reports of physical education teachers.
• To require as a condition for federated any sport before age 18
years, and to sign contracts professional, regular attendance and
controlled to a formal education institute.
• In the orbit of ANEP, complement the exemption scheme for fault
students to justify the need for leave or temporarily reduce your schedule
Class as a result of a professional or federated sport, with
the effective implementation of the rule that entitles them to choose alternative schedules and
with the creation of a system of compensatory classes (possibly regime
tutoring) for recovering the lost time. Avoid making the sport
a reason to stop or limit the studies learning.
Sport and Society Plan
The specific objective of the plan is to coordinate sport policy with a set of policies
social, as a way to strengthen the efforts to promote human development and
social inclusion. Major initiatives to promote are:
• Improve sports spaces in their human resources and infrastructure,
prioritizing those who are in socially vulnerable areas. Between the
Sports seats only improve in Montevideo include the following:
Square No. 1, Old Town (closed to the public); Square No. 2, in Villa Muñoz (state
General decline except the roof of the gymnasium); Square No. 5, La Union (deterioration
walls, banks and recreational areas); Square No. 10, Cerro Norte (male ward
virtually unused and female); Square No. 8, Piedras Blancas (problems
maintenance and infrastructure); Square No. 14, in New Paris (it was closed without
They are offered alternative).
• Creating new spaces for sport in areas socially
vulnerable, prioritizing its physical link with the Centers for Integration and Citizenship
(See the "Social Policy" In a country of opportunities section).
• Support the installation of equipment for physical activity in parks and squares
public, and contribute to the presence of physical education teachers to guide
users. This activity will be conducted in coordination with governments
department, the Ministry of Social Development and the Ministry of Interior through the Plan and Plazas
safe parks (see the "Public Safety" section in a country that cares for its people).

• Coordination between programs to encourage the sport and Leadership Program
Community (see the "Social Policy" in a country of opportunities). The new
Sports Square model should transcend exclusively to physical activity,
to turn it into a living space.
• Coordination between programs to encourage the sport and the National System
Volunteerism (see the "Social Policy" in a country of opportunities). In
particular, it will seek to ensure the regular presence of known sports figures
(Football players, basketball players, etc.) and recreational sports facilities located in
vulnerable areas, in order to share a bit of activity with people
of the area and, thereby, encourage participation in such activities.
• Participation of the Ministry of Tourism and Sports in the National Network of Addiction
(See the "Social Policy" In a country of opportunities section).
• Policy support to sports organizations in vulnerable areas.
Relaunch of co-financing program for improving the MTOP
infrastructure.
Sport plan for all
The specific objective is to promote recreation and physical culture in all groups
old and sectors of the population, ensuring equal access and proposing
differentiated activities. Major initiatives to promote are:
• Sport at work. It is proposed to develop, in coordination with the Ministry of
Labour and Social Security, physical activity programs to be developed in the
Workplace. Each program is tailored to the demands and risks inherent
each business activity and have as primary objective they can install routines
maintained over time.
• Sport for seniors. It will address the physical and recreational needs
the elderly, in order to promote their personal welfare and integration
social. The actions will be developed in coordination with the Ministry of Social Development, especially
Grandmothers through the program and day centers for the elderly (see section
"Social policies" in a country of opportunities). Accompanying adults
greater will be delivered by multidisciplinary teams that include teachers
physical education, health and advanced students of both professions.
• different sport. It will consist of a set of actions directed to people with
disabilities, partly deepen ongoing initiatives
and in part will add new options. Again, accompaniment
It will be delivered by multidisciplinary teams that include education teachers
physical, medical and advanced students of both professions.
Sports under Plan
The specific objective is to promote and support sports such as swimming, rugby,
volleyball, handball and martial arts as a way to expand the range of options and,
thereby, increase the number of people who choose to practice some discipline
sports. Among the actions to be undertaken include:
• Provide support to the federations that drive these sports, both
economically and organizationally. It is proposed to extend to other disciplines
sport similar to that applied by OFI and ONFI model. These organizations are
soccer forward activity throughout the national territory (capitals, towns and

villas), and achieved the participation of more than 90,000 children and adolescents.
• Work with provincial governments, associations and companies
Private, in order to disseminate and promote each of the chosen disciplines.
• Use sports squares and public places to promote these disciplines.
• Reduce taxes on sports equipment necessary for the practice of these
disciplines, including promoting the use of bicycles in bulk.
• Generate new forms of aid, both private and public funding to
encourage the participation of athletes in competitions and Uruguayan teams
regional and international.
• particular attention should be to promote gender equality in access to
different sports specialties.
High competition plan
The specific objective is to support Uruguayan athletes who are able to
enter the highly competitive circuit. Among the measures to be implemented include:
• Provide maintenance grants to competitive athletes, in order to help
prepare for specific events (Olympics, Pan American Games, etc.).
• Provide tax breaks to companies that decide to support an athlete
competitive (ensuring their maintenance, purchasing equipment, etc.), always
that aid exceeds a certain amount and that no advertising returns.
• Encourage in academic research linked to sports medicine,
high competition for food and other forms of knowledge related to the
sports competition.
• Creation of a network of sports complexes to assist in a comprehensive way
elite athletes with modern technical support to consider the variables
physical, technical and scientific, sports, psychological and social. The network will be built
by Celeste High Performance Centre (CECAR) and some centers in
across the country. To put them in a position will work in coordination
with departmental governments. The network will share the same methodology
work and a central advisory team. The elite athletes
may attend any of the venues, or switch between them without losing a frame
common work.
Sport Insurance Plan
The Ministry of Tourism and Sports will collaborate with the Ministry of Interior and the
MIDES Sport for the implementation of Security Plan, as has been described in section
"Public safety" of a country that cares for its people.
In particular, the Ministry of Tourism and Sports will participate in the development of
campaigns and educational activities to eradicate violence
the sports venues.

SOCIAL SECURITY
A country that cares for its people must have a social security regime capable of protecting
all, respectful of the demands of justice and able to sustain over
of the time. Social security we have today does not fully meet these conditions.

So we want to work to improve it. We want to give the best possible protection
all Uruguayans, but especially the most vulnerable.
The current difficulties
The favorable economic situation for a decade that the country benefits generated
an important employment growth and, consequently, an increase in the number of
contributors to social security. But, despite these favorable conditions, the regime
facing some serious difficulties. The most worrisome are:
• Although there has been progress in recent years, labor informality remains
high: about 1 in 4 workers is out of form. East
average holds significant variations by activity. In the sectors most
Critics (domestic service and construction) informality is around 50%.
There is also an imbalance in geographical terms. While in Montevideo
informality is below 20%, almost one in two workers
Residents in the border departments is informal.
• The mixed social security system (BPS composed and AFAP) has
consolidated and has a high degree of acceptance among workers. Without
But there are problems that deserve attention. The most important is the state of
BPS accounts. Its balance projections are worrisome, even if
considered relatively short terms. So the authorities have stated that
at some point you will need to change the retirement age.
• Along with this, driving the BPS has lost professionalism, becoming
the retirement system in a field of ideological battles. For example, BPS assumed
a task that can not meet responsibly, as is to advise those
disaffiliate consider an AFAP. In assuming this task, not only the
BPS became judge and jury, but promised to give advice
You can not take seriously because the future is unknown behavior
main variables that define the amount of each retirement. This not only implies
a high probability that the employee take a wrong decision, but also
the risk of a wave of civil litigation. The fact that the campaign launched by the BPS
I've had very little response does not exempt the conduct of this responsibility.
• The BPS has serious management problems that make it inefficient. As an example,
Note that loses about 70% of the trials before the Tribunal
Administrative Litigation.
• Another problem is the limited system profitability of savings funds as
AFAPs are required by law to place much of its assets in papers
Been. This not only affects future earnings of contributors but concentrates
risks: if government accounts deteriorate, all retirees would
seriously affected. This would generate more social costs and aggravate the difficulties
to balance the public accounts.
• The collector eagerness of recent governments has led them to maintain the validity of
IASS, when clearly it is a tax treats savings as if
income and returns to punish many retirees already be punished by
taxation of retirement pensions.

Our vision: the best possible protection for all
Our government action in relation to social security will be guided by four
basic principles:
• We want a Uruguay with a highly formalized economy and a system
healthy retirement, based on the complementarity of the two pillars (the BPS and
AFAP), where the margins of uncertainty are reduced and each worker can
access a maximum of protection that the country is able to offer.
• We want to improve the performance of the savings generated by the efforts of the
workers, encouraging more use of funds to boost AFAPs
investment projects that the country needs. It is not reasonable that governments
into debt with foreign creditors when they could do with the funds
pension, provided they voluntarily accept the terms offered.
• We want to deepen the policies of inclusion to social security of all
sectors of society, but we do it responsibly, optimizing
controls considerations and ensuring global stability.
• We want to articulate the social security system with social policies
achieve better performance for the most vulnerable groups like the elderly
and people with disabilities.
Our proposals
The main actions we intend to promote during the five years are
following:
Modifications to the general pension scheme
• Best guaranteed retirement. The current regime gives many workers the freedom
choose from a retirement entirely paid by the BPS and retirement
"Mixed", partially paid by the BPS and partially paid by an AFAP.
More recently, he who chose the "mixed" system possible
to go to the BPS system between 40 and 50 years old. Since it is
very hard to know which way ensure better retirement, it faces many
workers a risky bet. We propose an alternative system,
allowing to defer consideration of the situation until retirement.
And we guarantee the worker the better of the two pensions. This solution does not
it will be more expensive for the state because, in many of the cases where the
assured by the "mixed" system is the most suitable retirement, the State will pay
less than it would have cost retirement entirely paid by the BPS. From
Thus we achieve three objectives: to eliminate uncertainty for workers,
ensure collection of most retirement to which he can aspire care accounts
public.
• Quality Certification of all processes in the BPS by 1 March
2020, with a view to significantly improve its management, giving it greater
transparency, objectivity and efficiency.
• Amendment of Law 16,713, progressively reducing the percentage of portfolio
AFAPs that necessarily must invest in public papers and enabling them
to diversify their placements within a framework of guarantees and equivalent controls
by using the most reliable pension funds internationally. The state
Uruguayan AFAPs may use as a source of financing other

projects such as infrastructure development, but could not force them to accept
their conditions. The general principle is voluntary, requiring find
right incentives.
• Inclusion in the social security system today excluded groups within a framework of
responsibility and control over the consideration. For example, will include the
inmates engaged in productive activities, complementing the retirement contribution
with a contribution to the compensation fund for victims of violent crime.
• Creation of a multi-party technical committee to analyze future scenarios
social security reform and suggest measures that can prevent
critical events. It is necessary that the country has capacity to anticipate rather
than waiting for problems to be installed as a way to ensure stability
system and reduce social costs.
Measures for specific populations
Measures to protect workers
• Full payment of nominal wages by bank account and deposit retention
BPS contributions to the payer.
• Improve coordination between the MTSS and the BPS, so that all agreements
MTSS included in the corresponding contributions to social security and reflect
in the work history of the employee.
• The combination of these measures will reduce the risk of misappropriation
the contributions of the worker. The use of electronic media will deepen
the gradual reduction of VAT on purchases by workers. The
third means, among other things, to obtain funds to finance other proposals.
Protective measures seniors
• Speed ​​up the process of improving the minimum pension payments.
• Eliminate Tax Assistance Social Security (IASS). This measure
It will mean a tax waiver of almost 2% of revenue, but is an imperative
for those who think that the legal precedence over politics. The mobilization
assets AFAPs to finance infrastructure will be one of the
countervailing measures.
• more flexible the existing legal standard for performance of gainful back
retirement, reducing its discretion and expanding the scope of action
individuals.

• Extension of subsidy lenses and hearing aids to low-income retirees. Actually,
Private sector workers affiliated to the BPS have that benefit while
They are active, but lose when they retire (ie, the age at which else
required). Extend this benefit to the 150,000 retirees and pensioners who receive
less than 8,500 pesos would cost just under two and a half million
dollars. The idea is to fund this expense with part of the profits received by the BPS
by owning 37% of AFAP Republic. In 2013, the BPS received more
3 million for this item. Over 15 years, the BPS guard
those profits coming out of retirement savings, without giving destination.
• Quick solution to the nearly 6,000 applications for housing for senior citizens who are
unanswered. A new program that will ensure retirees will launch endorsement

BPS similar to Zero conditions Settlement Plan (particularly
regarding access to housing in disuse in state hands).
• Development of day centers for the elderly (see section "Social Policy"
In a country of opportunities).
Measures to protect persons with disabilities and in situations of dependency
• Effective enactment of Law 18,651, of 2010, which creates the figure of
Personal assistant for dependents through the creation of a
National System of Care Unit (SNAD).
• System call and response coordination of care with scope
national.
• Strengthen BPS Health Services for the care of patients
diseases or congenital malformations, in coordination with providers
public and private of the NHIS.
• Reducing demands on the family unit to access the disability pension
in the case of no severe disabilities.
• home care program (See the "social policies" in a country
opportunities).
Measures to protect the family unit
• Increased Family Allowance common to equate with the AFAM Plan
Equity, recognizing the contribution effort of formal worker (this measure
Plan is part of the "We are with you," presented in the "Social Policy"
A country of opportunities).
• Optimize health checks and school attendance of children to the different
study centers. (See, for example, infant oral health plan included in the
section "Health and Addictions" a country that cares for its people).
Measures to protect police officers
It will be promoted from the social security system a set of measures in support of
Plan for upgrading the police function (see the "Public Safety" section in a country
to care for your people). These include the following:
• Analyze the possibility of integrating the system AFAPs superior police.
• Analyze the possibility of harmonizing the system of the Police Box with the
other boxes.
• In housing for police family, enforce the law enforcement 14.
230 (Police Organization Act).
• Reinstall the granting of so-called extraordinary pension as a result
the death or incapacity of the police in direct act of service.
• Reinstall the exemption from contribution to police health of the family unit as
following the death of policeman in direct act of service.
• Study mechanisms to standardize the retirement and pensions of those police
which today are covered by different rules and, having made
the same race, receive different benefits.

ROAD SAFETY
Traffic accidents have become a plague in our country. Each year
Some 570 people die for this cause, and another 28,000 suffer temporary injuries or
permanent. Every 15 hours is a death resulting from this scourge. Rate
mortality of 16.5 deaths per hundred thousand inhabitants is one of the highest in
the region. Traumatic disease is the third leading cause of death in the country, and the first
among children and youth.
Besides being a human tragedy, traffic accidents generate huge costs
economic, estimated at 4.5% of GDP. It means that take as much money as the
spent on education. If we could lower the accident rate, not only we would avoid
much suffering but dispondríamos more resources to meet the needs
of the population.
Despite the seriousness of the problem, there is no comprehensive policy to attack. Some
departmental governments have had valuable initiatives, but national governments
They have not given the issue the attention it deserves. This is not typical of a country that cares
its people.
The main problems to be solved
The causes of our high claims are many, and include among others the rapid
Growth of traffic. But there are some factors which may
act with the expectation of generating substantial changes. Most important for the
policy design are:
• Our country has not accompanied the growth of the fleet with
reinforcement of adequate signage, lighting and conditioning
of the roads.
• Insufficient specialized personnel working steadily in the
problem resolution. There are specialists who have formed a personal capacity and
some provincial governments have made efforts to train, but not
there is a national policy. Garzón Corridor failure is, among other
things, a very remarkable proof of the lack of existing professionalism.
• The formal education system has not been properly used to generate a
road safety culture. This is particularly serious if one takes into account that a
95% of accidents are caused by human factor.
• The ability to respond to disasters is very unevenly distributed in the
country. According to the event occurring in the urban or rural environment, in a favored area or
in a deprived area, arrival times and support available can be
extremely different.
• Some provincial governments have insisted on repressive measures (limitation
speed, banning orders, guinchado vehicles) but have done almost
any effort to develop and reinforce positive habits (media campaigns
to strengthen the habit of keeping the right, properly use the signalman or
circular paths painted on the pavement). A campaign to help sort
transit, and consequently make better use of available infrastructure, sale
much less money than widening an avenue.

• For some provincial governments, traffic fines have a much eagerness
more than educational collector.
• While Law 18,113 created a decentralized agency specifically dedicated to
regulation and traffic control (the UNASEV) are not provided him with the means
inadequate and the legal and political support it needs to fulfill its mission.
Our vision: a national policy for safe passage
The country urgently needed transit insurance policy that has the following
characteristics:
• Must be a national policy, with a design that meets all requirements
country. Only then can be removed geographical inequities that exist today.
• It must be a policy designed centrally (same rules and standards
security throughout the territory) but applied in a decentralized manner. That will be
must support and strengthen the technical teams of departmental governments.
• In accordance with the recommendations of various international organizations, should
be a statewide policy, that is, involving legislative,
Executive and Judicial.
• It should be an agreed policy, whose design involving all parties
parliamentary representation and the main economic and social actors.
• It should be a policy of alliances, which take the input from capacity
NGOs working in the field as well as the
international organizations and governments willing to cooperate.
Our proposals
The main actions we intend to promote during the five years are
following:
Measures aimed at preventing traffic accidents
• Adaptation of national legislation to the requirements of traffic safety.
Introducing a bill to create the Courts and Traffic Inspector
Transit Department. This figure will be responsible inspective bodies,
as a way to depoliticize the issue and take the pressure off the mayors.
• Adaptation of the roadworthiness national standards and policies
road safety.
• In coordination with departmental governments and the MTOP, standardization
safety standards for construction of junctions, interchanges, steps
pedestrian, access roads to parking lots, etc.
• In coordination with provincial governments, a program will be developed
only national, with unified theme for the training of aspiring to get
The drivers license. The program will include normative content elements
first aid, mechanical skills and defensive driving criteria.
• In coordination with the authorities of ANEP, introduction of road safety and to
accidents as curriculum subject in primary and secondary education. Students
midlevel obtaining outstanding qualifications may be exempted
up to 50% of the theoretical test for the driving license, provided that the
processed in the next two years to have completed high school. It will be coordinated with
teacher training institutes to organize the training of trainers

this matter.
• Regulation and supervision of national academies drivers. Elaboration of
a plan to train trainers will include mechanisms for accreditation
who are active and compulsory courses for new entrants.
• Single license of drivers with common criteria for defining factors
disabling (vision, hearing, neurological or substance abuse problems,
etc.).
• Development of a training program for professional drivers (drivers
bus, taxis, limos and trucks) for which compliance will be conditional
the renewal of the book. International practice shows that these programs are
an investment with high returns because of the large number of vehicles they drive,
good practices of professional drivers have a computer effect
transit (and bad practices have the opposite effect).
• Creating a Communications Unit within the UNASEV, which will be the
responsible for the development of campaigns aimed at improving levels
information and generate positive habits. This unit should act in coordination
with departmental governments and the MTOP (in the case of domestic routes).
• Strengthening, in coordination between UNASEV and departmental governments,
local and departmental units for road safety.
• Inclusion in the SOA a charge which will be used to finance
prevention activities.
Measures to protect the weakest in transit
The package aims to protect some groups, according to statistics,
They are especially frequent victims of traffic accidents. These include
cyclists who circulate in motorcycle and minors.
• Promote the installation of bike lanes in the main cities and routes in the country.
• Standardization of safety measures for motorcycles.
• Training program for staff to act on the doors of schools and
high schools, both public and private, during the hours of entry and exit.
• Incentives for departmental governments install traffic lights in the doors
schools and colleges, in order of priority defined by history
accidents.
• Installing audio devices at traffic lights, to facilitate the crossing of not
seers.
• Organization of communication campaigns aimed at creating friendly habits
in transit, as part of Plan Positive Culture (see chapter "Culture" in A
land of opportunity).
Measures aimed at improving the ability to respond to disasters
They are proposed as measures to be implemented at national level:
• Adapt the training of human resources (doctors and paramedics, but also
traffic inspectors, police officers and professional drivers) for care
prehospitaliaria of casualties.
• Improve response times of emergency phones in urban areas.
Effective implementation of Decree 309/008 of the Ministry of Health and monitoring
compliance.

• Increased coverage in national routes and roads, either by extending
the agreements with mobile emergency or the development of local resources
a first response route.
Measures aimed at the rehabilitation and care of victims
• In cooperation with the MSP and departmental governments, creating units
rehabilitation department that reduce the need to transfer
Montevideo. While each department may decide whether it is appropriate or not
outsourcing of services, protocols and minimum standards are defined
to be met throughout the country.
• In coordination with the Ministry of Social Development, MVOTMA and departmental governments,
development of an accessible guide to be applied as cities
decentralized.
• Creating a two-year community more accessible to the Prize.

ENVIRONMENT
Uruguay not only to integrate Uruguayans today, but also those who will live tomorrow.
Leave a healthy and biologically diverse environment is a responsibility
now touches us exercise. We need an environmental policy which, without ignoring the
production needs to have every community, prevent damage, orient
public and private decisions towards sustainability and protect ecosystems
threatened. A country that lacks a sound environmental policy is not a country
who cares for his people.
Current problems
With the creation in 1990 of the Ministry of Housing, Spatial Planning and the
Environment, Uruguay began a process of environmental progress. These advances
included, among other steps, the adoption of the Law on Environmental Impact Assessment,
the constitutionalization of general interest in protecting the environment,
approval of the General Environmental Law, the creation of the National System of Areas
Protected and, more recently, the creation of the National Environmental Monitoring
and the adoption of the Law on Land Management and Sustainable Development.
Despite this progress, in recent years there have been some obvious obstacles and
setbacks. Episodes such as the installation of mining Aratirí left eye weakness
some institutional safeguards against direct exercise of political will.
Some of the problems we face today are as follows:
• Notwithstanding the progress made, the authorities responsible for designing and
implement environmental policies do not have enough hierarchy, they do not have the
adequate resources and they have the appropriate technical autonomy.
• The enforcement of environmental regulations is uneven, and often more
declarative than real. In general, the "megaprojects" show weaknesses
our environmental management, especially when strong pressures are triggered
of the executive branch. If Prior Authorization Environmental Plant
Regasification and the Aratirí illustrate these problems. Similarly,
large projects of public enterprises, such as power plants

•

•
•

•

•

•

Thermal expansion of UTE and ANCAP refinery should be treated with
necessary technical independence.
There is insufficient coordination between the different protection initiatives
environment or between environmental and other public policy initiatives
(Eg, policies collection and treatment of urban waste, or
Control of emissions and noise pollution in the fleet).
Despite the spread of the slogan "Uruguay Natural", the country still has serious shortcomings
on sanitation, wastewater treatment and waste processing.
While environmental concerns have permeated the educational system, there
a comprehensive educational strategy. As a result, a part of the population continues
having a relatively low degree of environmental awareness and has not incorporated
minimum environmental responsibility practices.
Despite some efforts, most of Uruguay's cities are not
well equipped to support responsible practices towards the environment: the
places to throw waste are often scarce and poorly maintained; the
collection systems disposable containers and batteries are not suitable;
there are no policies for the reception and treatment of technological waste (telephones
cell phones, computers in disuse).
The state apparatus does not have adequate policies for the treatment of
waste generated by their own activity. Thus, computer equipment
accumulate obsolete in many agencies (particularly in ANEP, which
receives many donations), bulletproof vests (which have a limited life
and are difficult to destroy) they accumulate in the Interior Ministry, and throw large
amounts of paper without taking appropriate measures to ensure their recycling.
The country faces an environmental emergency magnitude that has to do with
Water. The problem is severe and multidimensional. It is not only state
our sources of drinking water (affected by pesticides, fertilizers and
inadequate treatment of industrial and urban) wastewater, but there are also
conceptual shortcomings to address the issue (so far we have not incorporated
the notion of basin as objects of policies and legislation). Also persist
serious problems of institutional management that become particularly acute in
this context (drinkable water losses in the network of SBI remain
very high in comparison terms).

Our vision: an environment protected by strong institutions
We aim to develop a comprehensive policy environment and national in scope,
to strengthen the leading role of the state through the design and application of rules
clear and valid for all game. We want this policy to be effective and at the same time
compatible with sustainable economic development. We are not opposed to any block
type of productive activity, but we want the general rules apply to all
the cases.
In this field as in many others, the different roles of the State should be handled
regardless, to avoid unwanted effects. The regulator and enabler organ
You must have a properly resourced and have the necessary technical autonomy.
This depends essentially on its institutional location as well as the composition and
mechanisms for electing their authorities.
We are convinced that the state should play a central role in this field, but

we also know that is not enough to state action. Also needed: a citizenry
sensitive and vigilant, you have built habits and practices in everyday life; Business
responsible public and private environmental impact of its processes; an academy
committed to the generation of knowledge and civil society
vigorous and active.

Our proposals
The main actions we intend to promote during the five years are
following:
Institutional strengthening measures
• To prioritize environmental policies it is necessary to strengthen the bodies
responsible for executing it. In particular, we propose to turn DINAMA, DINAGUA
DINARA and independent agencies in the executive branch and provided with autonomy
technical, professional schools and strengthening their endowments.
• Advance in the design land management tools that address the
capabilities differential pressure on natural resources and different habitats,
promoting activities according to the purpose of each area and excluding
activities incompatible with the pressure capacity.
• Strengthen interagency coordination, continuing the operation
Environmental Cabinet in the orbit of the Executive.
• Create National Courts of Environment, Planning and Cultural Heritage, which
intervene with conflict of interest issues in these three great
areas.
• Create the position of National Ombudsman for the Environment, Land and Heritage
Cultural, under the Legislative and technical autonomy.
• Create new offenses to protect environmental values, with the consequent
strengthening of judicial specialization and prosecutors.
• Require the use of conservation techniques and environmental improvement works financed
by the State.
• Create an audit for waste management operating throughout the apparatus
State (Central Government, Public Companies, Autonomous Entities and Services
Decentralized).
• Strengthen municipal environmental units, such as genuine tool
decentralization of environmental management.
Environmental education measures
• In coordination with ANEP, develop a comprehensive strategy for education
Environmental covering from primary education to teacher training.
• Encourage the entire state structure the training of human resources
oriented implementation of environmental management systems.
• Train staff of municipal environmental units.
• Develop public awareness programs involving the MVOTMA, the
municipalities, the IMPO and civil society.
• Public disclosure of sanctions in environmental matters laid down in section B of
art. 15 of Law 17,283).

Environmental restoration measures
• Promote programs that return the healthy state ecosystems and landscapes
degraded.
• Create networks that purpose Restoration involving government agencies,
private companies and civil society organizations present in the area.
• Articulate these programs with the National Volunteer System (see section
"Social Policy" In a country of opportunities).
• Coordinate with relevant departmental governments, and MVOTMA
with MTOP to ensure logistical support and tax incentives to make
possible to perform various restoration programs.
Incentive measures to entrepreneurship Environmentally Friendly
• Strengthening ecofiscalidad introducing tax incentives for companies
certifying its environmental quality.
• Best score in the state procurement system for certifying companies
environmental quality (Articles 61, 79 and 152 of TOCAF).
• Tax incentives for companies to introduce the use of clean energy,
resource reuse, recycling and other environmental protection practices.
• Tax incentives for use of biological control agents as alternatives to
chemicals.
Reform of the Environmental Impact Study for processes
Environmental Authorization (AAP)
The aim is to develop a control system that offers more guarantees than the current,
making it more fair and less focused on ex-post investigation of complaints.
• Creation in the field of DINAMA, a record of consulting firms
specialized in environmental impact studies.
• Those interested in obtaining the APP for a production or construction project
They must obtain the support of one of the companies registered for the study of
impact, following a scheme similar to that used by the Central Bank to issue
of Notes (which must have the endorsement of a rating
risky).
• The registered consultants also will be responsible for the effective monitoring
compliance with the conditions established in the project, with the obligation
to submit periodic reports thereon (6 months, 1 year or 2 years, depending on
project characteristics).
• DINAMA monitored and audited on an ongoing basis the work of the consultants
registered.
• The cost of previous studies and subsequent audits will be internalized
by those who promote projects.

Measures to protect drinking water reserves
• Develop a National Water Policy to be formulated in terms of
watershed protection.
• Complete the inventory of water resources nationwide, including estimates
supply, demand and water balance.
• Implement a system of continuous quality monitoring resource,

•
•
•
•
•

to identify vulnerabilities and build capacity for early response
pollution episodes.
Set in each watershed sustainable management programs
, shared with the community. Water resources
Develop regional coordination measures for shared basins
our neighbors, particularly the Uruguay River and the Río de la Plata.
Develop measures to control the use of pesticides and fertilizers in
near water sources.
Ensure access to drinking water throughout the country.
Development in the field of DINARA, a regulatory framework for the development
sustainable aquaculture.

Measures for the sustainable management of urban waste
• Develop a regulatory framework for the management of urban waste, including
mandatory mechanisms of sorting, recycling and final disposal of the
residues. These mechanisms must be installed progressively and should be
complemented by information and awareness campaigns.
• Establish mechanisms for financing for plant construction
deposition of municipal waste landfills contemplating the stages
classification and eventual generation of energy from biogas or biomass.
• Articulate new waste management policies with social policies aimed at
the population of scavengers and recyclers.
Measures to protect pets, work and production
Improve the situation of our animals is not only a condition for their own welfare,
but it helps us to evolve as people and as a society. Insensitivity or
indifference to the abuse and pain can become a culture that reproduces
this way. We therefore propose:
• Reduce the number of pets that are abandoned,
through awareness and accountability.
• campaigns through different media (radio, television, Ceibal, Internet)
aimed at getting people who have animals to give them the charge
conditions adapted to each species.
• health and care of the horses used to pull carts campaigns in
urban centers. As far as possible replacement by another type of vehicle.
• Relocation Plan and care of horses considered "useless" for work
in urban centers.
• Combating trafficking of exotic species. Working together with specialized NGOs to
provide adequate copies those conditions are recovered.
• Involve universities and research institutions in the generation and
appropriation of knowledge on how to provide better conditions to those
animals must remain in charge of the State.
• Awareness campaign and control to ensure that production animals
have a decent life. Study guidelines about organizations
International specialized.
• Strengthen the National Honorary Commission for Animal Welfare.

Agenda National Party government
Chapter 2

A country
opportunities

Agenda National Party government
Chapter 2

A country of opportunities
Introduction
We want a country with social justice. But not a righteousness that equals down and weaken
capacity for initiative, but a justice of wings and widening horizons. We do not want
a country of welfarism. We want a country of opportunities. A country where every
Uruguay, regardless of the home where he was born, have a real possibility
to deploy their talents and virtues. A country of people who dream of a better future.
A country of opportunities is a country that does not comply with poverty nor asalariar
generate dependent on state help people. We want to work for a genuine
inclusion, rather than exclusion settle compensation. So we propose a
plan "Settlement Zero", which not only point to regularize existing settlements
but to curb the dynamics that generate them. And so we are committed to a concept of
megainclusión that, based on territorial, covering economic, labor, what
education and health.
We want to overcome the outdated visions that have dominated the past
governments. We think, as does the world think that poverty is not only a failure
income but insufficient capacity to generate autonomously. Because
poverty not only generates vulnerability, but also dependency. We hope that no
no Uruguayan left in that condition. We want social policies that protect, but
at the same time stimulate the sense of responsibility and improvement.
A country of opportunities is a country with a successful teaching, able to accommodate all and
to help everyone to develop their best potential. We want an education
serving students and their families, where there are fewer class hours lost
and quality learning. We want an education that brings out the best of our
teachers and help them develop as professionals and as people. We want a
teaching that generate results rather than be content with spending money. We
that in Uruguay today, a good education policy is the best social policy.
A country of opportunities is a country that strives to bring the benefits of culture to
all.



















We
Do not
From the




Their



























•

•

•

•

go a double way. On the one hand it has to rebuild the social fabric torn in
territorial, social and cultural. This involves improving the physical environment (infrastructure,
housing) conditions and bring basic services such as health and
education. On the other hand, we must encourage the construction attitudinal
beneficiaries themselves, so that, starting from a situation of vulnerability,
finish becoming protagonists of their own inclusion. Social development
It should focus on the dignity of the person through the construction of a
identity, the effective exercise of rights and obligations, and strengthening
capacity. No personal development strategies respectful of diversity
styles and preferences, the transformation of the environment ends up failing.
Social policies territorial axis. A real social development requires the integration
of land and housing policies with social policies in the classical sense.
Urban planning programs and social programs should be
conceived and executed together. This is justified for two reasons. In
First, many of the people in situation of economic, social
or culture are also people facing serious housing problems or
territorial integration. Secondly, support for the territorial reduces the risk
to work with abstractions desktop and promotes coordination with networks
existing social.
Social policies that address the temporal dimension. Not everyone in
vulnerable have the same needs. Not the same take years
in a situation of exclusion that have recently fallen into it or belong
a group at risk (landholders, small entrepreneurs, minorities
ethnic, people with disabilities). Time is a key element for
development of strategies for rehabilitation. In some cases it may be necessary
deep and complex interventions, while in other cases it may
achieve inclusive economy with actions to promote the development of self
initiative. The territorial and temporal must be supplemented in consideration of
the processes of life of beneficiaries.
Community networks. Policies that aim to strengthen the urge
local leaders and community networks as agents of change. We want
placing the community as protagonist output process of exclusion.
The community empowerment is an alternative to the culture of patronage
care, generating ties of dependency among beneficiaries and bureaucracy
state. We are committed to a public action to mobilize the energy that
community. This requires building custom ties concerning
local, state personnel and each of the beneficiaries, in a process that
part of an excluded and culminates in an active and integrated social actor. For this is vital
find and mobilize leadership skills and competencies that are in
latency. It also involves leverage the knowledge disseminated in the
own communities. No one knows the specifics of each situation,
emergency and opportunities that individuals and organizations active at the local level.
We policies supported by the will of influence.
Multidimensional approach. The aim of social policies should be cut
intergenerational transfer (as in the case of extreme poverty) or intragroup
(As in the case of minorities) of the situations of exclusion and vulnerability.
To achieve this need to see exclusion as a multidimensional phenomenon

•

•

•

•

encompassing the health, educational, recreational him, productive and cultural. The
exclusion is not living in a settlement, but not access services
Suitable not have effective legal protection, no access to stable jobs and
worthy or credit arrangements compatible with the development of enterprises
sustainable. It also involves often be socialized into gender models
that reproduce violence and discrimination. Therefore, it can not be expected to
a single type of action (such as direct cash transfers or inclusion
educational) solve the problem alone. Even worse, if the system reload
with education beyond strictly educational tasks, we put at risk
not adequately fulfill any of the functions assigned to it. An approach
multidimensional involves coordinating a range of specific public policies in a
same environment. Again, this is only possible if we privilege the local community
as an area of ​​social development.
Coordination of public and private initiatives. The emphasis on community also
helping to end the duplication of programs and unconnected messages.
Depending on each situation, we will work with the network of initiatives and services
present in the area, in a general framework defined by public policy. This
It supposed to coordinate the activities of state services among themselves and also with the
voluntary initiatives and actions of corporate social responsibility.
Term interventions. Good social policy is one that, within more
short as possible, it becomes unnecessary for the beneficiaries because they have achieved
leaving the vulnerable. A social program that always finds
reasons to extend is not a good social program, except those
They occupy permanent vulnerabilities. Therefore, with the proviso mentioned,
interventions will promote you expect a beginning and an end. Its design
It should include specific short- and medium-range and systems
conditionalities allowing only move to more advanced stages of the project if
impacts have been achieved under the above.
Methodology of mutual commitment. Public authorities must commit
to ensure some progress, such as improvements in the urban environment or access to services
(Public transport, ambulances, entertainment, etc.). Private agents
possibly involved (such as civil society organizations) must
clarify the scope of their contributions and commitment to achieve certain goals. The
beneficiary communities must be fulfilled previously agreed targets
defining an exit plan for the vulnerable. For this logic is
management essential indicators of achievement and fulfillment of commitments.
New concept of poverty. Poverty is not about insufficient resources
that will satisfy basic needs, but the inability to generate these
resources autonomously, either through decent employment or entrepreneurship
sustainable. Therefore, a good policy against poverty can not be reduced to
assistance through direct transfers, but you should create opportunities
for families and individuals become able to generate income. This
means no downloads are to be removed, but it does mean
They must function as one tool among others. If we limit ourselves for years
to make transfers, we are not fighting poverty, but their symptoms.
This means that there is no real inclusion if economic inclusion.
Widespread access to sources of income (in which influences from the

education and vocational training to the regularization of land titles
and access to microcredit) is one of the cornerstones of social development.
We need policies that empower and opportunities for people, rather than
keep in a state of dependency.
• Transparency and accountability. Those responsible for social policies must
accountable to the citizens of the use made of the resources provided
by society. Transparency and efficiency should be guiding principles
management. The quality of public policies (including social policy) is not measured
counting the money spent, but assessing their impact on the conditions of
life of beneficiaries.
Our proposals
The main initiatives we intend to push from the government are
following:
Institutional Reforms
A reorientation of social policies requires a reform of the institutional fabric
accompany. Among the initiatives to push forward include:
• The Ministry of Social Development should be less frequently an implementing agency
superimposed on others to go to work as a counselor and coordinator body
the set of social policies. This is not to pull the MIDES "terrain" but
to enhance a mixed model that combines direct intervention with guidance
and evaluation of actions by others. As the United Nations has
established the Millennium Development Goals, the agenda of government should establish goals
national improvement. Based on them, MIDES must work with society
to comply. We must aim for joint action involving State
non-governmental and voluntary action as a means of public organizations.
It will work on the simplification and coordination of actions.
• Set in the central national government programs mode
"A program, responsible" in order to prevent overlapping
bodies weaken and dilute the impact responsibilities. Each set of targets
You must have an identifiable responsible, accountable to society and
politic system.
• Organize social policy in a relatively small set of high-impact agency programs, rather than disperse it in a multitude of initiatives
difficult to identify, monitor and evaluate.
• Define the concept of permanent social spending as one which must ensure in
over the medium term, beyond the cyclical variations. A policy
social that can only last as long as there is a political bonanza will generate
injury right in the moment when there will be more people in a position of weakness.
Therefore it is necessary to establish a rule that puts the permanent social spending
safe from the natural oscillations of economic cycles, as a condition
to build long-term public policies that cut playback
intergenerational poverty. This implies two things: that social spending should
have a guaranteed floor should be prioritized on many other expenses;
and that the floor should be defined in a way that is not threatened during the part

Low cycle.
• Install a transparent model of social management, to enable the results
obtained in terms of impact and assess the degree of efficiency achieved
in the use of resources. We aim to develop a social development index,
inclusion and citizenship, to assess impacts over time, as
disaggregated according to the different areas of intervention. The application of this
instrument will be in the hands of an independent external audit system
results, which will publish its findings periodically.
• Strengthen Integration and Citizenship Centers as key areas for
Local implementation, coordination and continuous evaluation of programs based
territorial. These centers, which operate on a decentralized logic and will point
to promote the development of community leaders, will be running nodes
ongoing programs and areas of inter-institutional coordination
local actions. An infrastructure that facilitates the appropriation is created
by the community. Beyond the specifics that apply, the
institutions will develop a series of joint activities aimed at strengthening
Local plot and create links between public and private. Also they are directly
responsible for the implementation of some programs, such as "Citizenship program
active "(aimed at encouraging community involvement, local identity and
positive) leadership and the "Are you in your right" (aimed at promoting
knowledge and responsible for the rights) exercise.
• Within the framework established by Law 17.885 (even unregulated) will promote the
installation of the National Volunteer System, offering similar benefits
which generates employment activity in the formal sector of the economy: coverage
National Health System, pension contributions and eligible for retirement years.
These benefits can only accept volunteers reach perform tasks
stable, subject to coordination and evaluation for periods not less than two
years. Within this frame, especially we promote the creation of a Program
National Youth Service.
• Creating a Matrix Corporate Social Responsibility, in accordance with that
sector to facilitate joint initiatives among their own private sector and
public policy strategies. For this criteria will be taken as reference,
programs and actions including the ISO 26000 Guidance on Social Responsibility,
emphasizing the dynamics of partnership between the various stakeholders:
civil society organizations, businesses, unions, government agencies
national and departmental, local communities. It will continue to promote
and spreading the Law of Special Grants and other incentives will be generated
and tax breaks to companies leading programs and projects
Social responsibility in coordination with the State.
• A model of academic cooperation for social development will be promoted, directed
all national universities to stimulate research and exchange
on issues directly related to social development. It will also promote
exchange and international cooperation for the benefit of all stakeholders.
• Addictions Social Observatory will be created, in order to analyze
integrally the problematic use of addictive substances and their impact on
different social spheres. This observatory will be integrated into the National Network
Addictions (see the "Public Health and Addiction" on a country to watch your

people).
• Creation of children and women police stations across the country.
Zero Settlement Plan
In Uruguay today, some 200,000 people live in settlements (the number can range
between 170 and 250 thousand, according to the criteria used). This is due in part to answers
spontaneous to the lack of access to formal housing and partly shares
organized. In Montevideo, the largest number of land occupations occurred during
the years in which the mayor was Dr. Tabare Vazquez.
Only two of every three inhabitants in settlements have access to water or electricity.
Those with sanitation barely exceed 10 percent. In many settlements
There are serious problems of insecurity and plays a culture that pushes people
education and formal employment. Consequently, not only remove settlements
would solve a problem of urban planning, but remove one of the
major mechanisms generating exclusion.
Zero Settlement Plan, which will be coordinated by President of the Republic,
It aims to create the conditions to remove the settlements within ten years.
To achieve these goals requires action on several fronts. The most important are:
• Discourage the creation of new settlements, eliminating incentives
drive to train (in this Plan will be the key "We are with you").
• Regulate the settlements in viable areas (which means providing them
infrastructure and services, and regularize the ownership).
• Relocation of households that are installed in areas with incompatible
the development of a safe and healthy life, as floodplains or highly
contaminated.
• Focus public policy actions framed in the model megainclusión.
• Some of the actions that will be part of the Settlement Plan Zero are the
following:
• Update the information available on the resident population
settlements and other vulnerable communities, to be conducted in cooperation between
MIDES and INE.
• Update the information available on institutions and initiatives that are
active in areas of high vulnerability (whether state, private or mixed), to be
by MIDES.
• Creating a rapid response system to prevent the creation of new
settlements from March 2015. Those who invade lands will be evicted
under the guarantees established by the Constitution and the law.
• Development of joint plans to be applied in the settlements considered
viable, including public programs aimed at providing
infrastructure and services (sanitation, power lines, roads, transportation
urban, sports and recreational facilities), support programs to be driven
by private organizations (Movement Tacurú, roof, etc.) and considerations to
be fulfilled by the beneficiaries and the local community (such as improving housing
by tenants). These joint plans will be designed and implemented following
the methodology of mutual commitment.
• Community Leadership Program. The aim will be to identify and promote leaders
Local function as articulators of public policies and initiatives

•

•

•

•

private in the settlements. Leaders receive training and support. Also
shall be subject to a performance that will be held partially
in the community and partially owned by the state. Their task
contribute to the design and implementation of programs that link the educational, health
and economic development.
Plan of granting land titles to those who have occupied lands in
viable settlements considered prior to September 2014. For the
granting of the titles will be set certain conditions relating to quality
housing (improvements by the occupant, technical support and materials)
the requirement of having a job or a formal undertaking during the 80%
while in the previous two years.
Development of a rapid exit plan for families living in uninhabitable areas.
The first step is to survey homes and existing properties
that can be used to rehouse residents of settlements
unviable. It is estimated that in the country about 50 thousand vacant homes. A part
important of them (as well as a number of building plots) are held
State. It makes no sense to launch housing construction plans will first
good use is made of this asset. The second step will be the design and
implementing a plan for the use of existing housing and land. Are you
tasks will be performed within the framework established by the Law on Land Management
(Law 18,308), in coordination with departmental governments.
Solidarity Rental Program. This program will be implemented in regularizing
settlements, but also it is part of a package of solutions offered
the range of low-income population (up to 60 UR), whose needs
housing are neglected. The program will award housing until today
unoccupied (owned or abandoned by debt) to households
located in that income bracket. The household must undertake to invest
equivalent to the amount you would pay rent for the housing renovation tasks
and recovery. To fulfill this commitment will be provided
materials and technical assistance (see about the next item). Compliance
the commitment will enable to participate in the degree program or generate a
long usufruct right.
Urban Affordable Housing Plan. In the metropolitan area there are numerous
properties with good infrastructure (water, power lines, sanitation) and
cost per square meter significantly lower than in the coastal zone. The purpose
there is to stimulate the construction of affordable housing, spreading to other
income bands experience began with the Act social housing (Law
18,795). A first component of this plan will be the creation of an agency
no state to promote self-construction. The aim is to develop a
urban version of the successful experience of MEVIR, combining technical assistance,
the basket of materials and personal effort. A second component will consist
an abatement program that combines construction costs stimuli
for the use of non-traditional systems (which is essential for expediting the
Document granting mechanisms Technical Aptitude) with exemptions
tax (VAT, BPS, customs duties). A third component will consist of
calling architectural competitions to develop proposals for SCNT
low-cost materials and national technical, and financing models

experimental. A fourth component is the reformulation of the Plan Together, they
so far it has had low impact due to poor design and management.
We propose the refinement of the plan, integrating the institutional logic
public policies (for what should be incorporated into the five-year plans
MVOTMA). The overall objective is to facilitate access to home ownership to the fringes
lower income population.
Plan "We are with you"
One of the problems of social policies promoted by the Frente Amplio is that
offer solutions to those who have fallen into a situation of exclusion but least protected
those at risk of falling into it. This is despite the fact that many people who
They remain in the formality with similar income levels to benefit from
social benefits (in Montevideo, one in three renters is socioeconomic status
low or medium-low). This way of organizing social functions as an incentive plans
for building settlements and other variants of informality.
The plan "We are with you" will target those households that are at risk but receive
little support. May be beneficiaries of the plan the chiefs or heads of households that meet
the following conditions: live in a multi-person household; have a formal job or a
microemprendimiento properly registered; pay rent or be willing to
I pay; regularly pay an electricity bill, or be willing to do so; have
an income that does not exceed the first line of imposition of income tax; unless the beneficiary
Social Uruguay card or any other program downloads, excluding
Family Allowances different. Priority will be given under 30 (as a form
to support young couples who want to be independent) and households where there are children
under 15 regularly attending an educational establishment.
Some of the support measures to be provided are:
• Increased Family Allowance common to equate with the AFAM Plan
Equity, recognizing the contribution effort of formal worker.
• For those who do not reach the minimum taxable personal income tax possible to register
Rental Solidarity plans provided for slum dwellers.
• Exemption from income tax for those who do not reach the midpoint of the first strip
Imposition. For those who are located in the second half of the first strip,
reducing the rate of tax reduced from 10 to 5% (without prejudice to other
exemptions). This benefit is lost when the beneficiary reaches the second
strip.
• For those under 30 who aspire to rent a home, creating a
new system of state-backed guarantees, viable and scale to demand,
It is managed by the National Housing Agency.
• Eligibility to receive the benefits of Urban Housing Plan Low Cost.
• Eligibility for the Program of Responsible Parenthood, and the Grandmothers Program
Grandparents, the Community Teachers Programme and the like.
• For households that have children under 15, creating a deduction for
offset expenses care and education.
• For those who have properly formalized with micro,
ability to access micro-credit schemes and other measures of inclusion

economic offered to the population of the settlements, but with limits
higher borrowing.
• Priority to enroll in job training or entrepreneurial.
Plan to protect particularly vulnerable populations
Social programs should favor autonomy of the beneficiaries, but avoiding
the risk of creating new dynamics of exclusion. This means, among other things,
certain particularly vulnerable populations should be unconditionally
protected. Among these populations people who have severe difficulties include
and permanent to generate their own income, minors (which in any case
must pay for any breaches of their parents), older adults
economic downturn and women who are victims of domestic violence.
Some of the actions to be promoted in this context are:

• direct financial transfers. Direct financial assistance may not be
excluded from the menu of social policies, but should be organized so that no
it becomes a mechanism for asalariar poverty. This means that it can
used mainly in two situations. The first is the permanent assistance
people who, due to their physical, psychological, cultural or age condition have
severe and permanent disabilities to ensure their own livelihood. The second
is that of those who, while having potential for self-sustaining,
They go through a stage that prevents them from doing so. In the latter case, it is important
transfers can act as a means of facilitating the acquisition
skills and abilities in the context of a process of self-improvement. From
Thus, the money transfer will be conditional on the participation
active employment plans and socio-cultural integration, or compliance with
rehabilitation programs. It is also important that, in recent cases,
cash transfer programs are at term.
• Responsible Parenthood Programme. The program will aim to improve care
Children born in critical social contexts, from pregnancy until the third year
of life. The aim is to stimulate the commitment to the process, the re-definition
roles within the home and transfer habits and positive values ​​among
generations. Attention will be paid especially to encourage involvement
and the sense of responsibility of the biological parents, or failing of the
Current partners of mothers. The set of actions to include routines
health monitoring, development of specific food programs (to run
in coordination with the INDA), the reformulation of the system of family baskets
and awareness campaigns. This set of initiatives will be developed from
Integration and Citizenship Centers implanted in the communities in which
Support groups also work.
• Plan for development of the rural family. It will aim to create conditions for establishment and
inclusive development of family units installed in rural areas, through the
use of new technologies. Actions will include tutoring at a distance,
job training for adults, asesoramie nto in health and
digital literacy (see the "Education" in a country of opportunities).
• Support program for people with disabilities. Its aim is to centralize
and enhance integration and stimulus measures aimed at people with

•

•

•

•

disabilities. These measures easing the criteria included
established by the BPS for access to the pension for people with disability
severe and creating a program of reemployment or telecommuting
for workers with physical disability (accident, illness or age). In this
framework, it expands and strengthen the PROCLADIS of INEFOP program.
Program "Early childhood, first opportunity." The contexts of aging high
generate vulnerability early setbacks in physical growth and development
emotional, cognitive and social. Too often, this results in problems
learning during the school year. To address this risk, Uruguay
has an experience that has been internationally recognized: the CAIF Plan,
He born two decades ago. Without prejudice to other actions that are taken for
improvement and development, we intend to reach 100% coverage of the Plan
CAIF in highly vulnerable sectors. The coverage will extend children 0
to 2 years in a comprehensive manner, partly with the presence of the mother and partly area
alternative care. Extending the program to children 4 and 5 years will be studied,
from an analysis in conjunction with ANEP. The extension of coverage must be
accompanied by major areas for action to support families, as well as
monitoring mechanisms to level the quality of care. centers will be created
Community nursery to meet the demand that can not be absorbed by
CAIF Centers (see the plan "We have with us").
Grandmothers and Grandfathers program. Many children and young people growing up in vulnerable areas
now they have a grandmother (and to a lesser extent a grandparent) reference as an adult. TO
Often the adult lives in the same house and sometimes he moves, but the constant is
who spends long hours with their grandchildren while the mother is absent. These grandmothers
and grandparents often play a sacrificed and lonely task. They are often the
last adult in the family who has had a long experience in the system
education or in the formal sector of the economy. The Programme aims to support
those grandmothers and grandfathers, empowering them as habits and transmitters
values. The benefits include participation in encounter groups, containment
psychological (with bypass in cases that require it), the organization of spaces
shared playful and a system of incentives for organizations and companies
They engage in support tasks.
Reformulation of Community Teachers plan. Actions will deepen
support students who have learning difficulties or integration to the environment
school. To this end, the action of the Community Teachers will coordinate with
programs to support reading and the conditional regime that will promote
promoted by ANEP (see "Education" on a land of opportunity).
The action of the teachers also coordinate with community leaders and
the involvement of all existing networks will be sought, trying to combine
public and private efforts being undertaken in the area.
Program "Without young people is not present". It is a set of actions
aimed at neutralizing the multiple forms of vulnerability affecting
Young. These vulnerabilities were fully addressed through activities
training, sports and recreation, as well as detection and support actions
to addictions and violations of the law. To achieve greater impact, will be created
areas specifically dedicated to young people, as far as possible,
will use the infrastructure of Integration and Citizenship Centers. It will be paid

special attention to young people who neither study nor work, seeking their containment
and reintegration into the education system or the formal economy. Among the measures to boost
a readjustment of INEFOP, full implementation of the Employment Act it included
Youth and PROJOVEN restrengthening the program, which has been a model
successful to join training and job placement. The objective on this
program is to double the national coverage. It will create an incentive program that
encourage permanence in the educational system. Support will also be sought
businesses and civil society to promote among young people
productive, cultural and community entrepreneurship. companies will be convened
to participate with their employees as sponsors in this program. In the area
institutional, is expected to transform the National Institute of Youth Unit
Executing an autonomous budget within the orbit of the MIDES. As to
access to housing, we will promote a Young Housing Plan that will go on
20% of homes provided by the New Housing Plan MVOTMA.
• National Plan against Domestic Violence "Against abuse no one is alone." The
problem of domestic violence increases their impact on our society.
From a reformulation of the provisions of Law 17,514, this plan is proposed
joint action by different government agencies (Ministry of Social Development, Ministry of
Interior, Ministry of Health, provincial governments, judiciary) and
organizations of civil society, in order to respond efficiently
and comprehensive. They will create support centers where the victim or person at risk
It is staffed by a multidisciplinary team. This does not mean increased resources,
but a better use of those already available. They also create shelters
time for victims of domestic violence, or to strengthen the world.
The various entry points complaints (municipalities, MIDES, headquarters,
Sectional, specialized courts) will be placed on ensuring better network
care and reduce the risks of re-victimization. A protocol of action will be developed
unique, to be applied in all those entrance doors. As the aggressor, is
It proposes not only repression but referral for treatment. If we want
a comprehensive response to the issue of domestic violence, we can not only meet
the victim but also the aggressor. You also have to create a culture of perception
the problem as the first preventive mechanism.
• Program support to victims of sexual exploitation, violence and trade
Children. The system will operate in an integrated manner, following the same logic
it is proposed in the case of victims of domestic violence: networking
the inlet of complaints, comprehensive care of victims, mechanisms
Personal and family support for the transition to a situation that
ensure the rights, tougher penalties and greater control by the
specialized agencies.
Plan "We have with us"
Many adults Uruguayans living situations necessitating the care of others
people, or require special conditions to expand their own margins
autonomy. This situation tends to become more common with the passage of time, among other
things because of increased life expectancy. This plan aims to mobilize the
State resources and society so that all Uruguayans feel accompanied
when facing situations of disadvantage or vulnerability. The Plan shall include,

the following:
• day centers to support families. They are socio-therapeutic centers and support
During the day pay attention to basic, therapeutic and social needs
the families. They operate through agreements with civil society organizations
and the National Volunteer System. Normally they share infrastructure
with the Centers for Integration and Citizenship. It will tend to generate centers
facilities for people temporarily in need of overnight,
as victims of traffic accidents, people in convalescence following a
surgery or trauma of those who pass through different order.
• Maternal Centers. They function as a specific program within the Centers
Daytime. As far as possible, also take advantage of the infrastructure
Integration and Citizenship Centers. Its purpose is to offer a place of care
children in places where there are no other alternatives, such as
CAIF centers. the children of single mothers who must leave their children Priority will be given to
care of others to fulfill their duties.
• day centers for the elderly. The beneficiaries will be seniors in
vulnerable, either for emotional reasons economic, health or. The
day centers function as places of containment and specialized care.
Each center will have a permanent team of professionals who work in the form
coordinated, and people in the community that may be integrated in the form
voluntary or paid. This program will be complemented by other actions
aimed at the same audience as Sport for All program (see A country
watch your people).
• home care program. It is aimed at people with difficulties
transfer and in need of care. The program will be implemented in coordination with
civil society and the National Volunteer System. He
universe of beneficiaries including seniors, people with disabilities,
people living alone and transiting disease situations and people
through or went through traumatic situations such as those linked to violence
domestic and sexual abuse. The program will be complemented with remote assistance
through the telephone line and computer equipment and communications.
"Beyond Diversity" - Zero Discrimination Plan
Uruguayan society has made significant progress in the fight against
discrimination, but much remains to be done. Women of African descent, people with disabilities and sexual minorities remain
neglected or excluded by more or less obvious way. The Zero Discrimination Plan
will seek to coordinate and strengthen joint public actions aimed at
combat this problem. We aspire to a society composed of individuals who do not
must give up their identity, and at the same defend integration and national value.

The Zero Discrimination Plan is based on three pillars: legislation, education and evaluation.
Some of the actions to be promoted (complementary to some of the above
above) are:
• Effective implementation of the mechanism of entrance fee to public administration
for the black population.
• Effective implementation of the entrance fee to the public service for people

with disabilities.
• Applying the principles of Universal Design and Usability to redesign
existing public spaces. Application mandatory for all space
public to be created. The aim is to convert areas of urban spaces
citizen coexistence and integration.
• containment program for elementary and secondary education that are
discrimination or harassment from non-traditional family arrangements.
• Joining the teacher training programs of curricular content
put to future teachers in a better position to face the
discrimination or harassment based on ethnicity, household, religion, appearance
physical and stigmatized behaviors.
Make sure that public services, especially those related to health, applied
unrestricted diagnostic methods and treatments related diseases
prevalence in specific groups.

EDUCATION POLICY
The Uruguay is experiencing a situation of educational emergency. Never in our history was a
bad relationship between the amount of money spent and the results obtained.
The current difficulties
The problems of our education are basically four:
• First, we have a problem concerning the inclusion: our teaching
It is among the most expulsive the continent. Less than 40% of young people
Uruguayans are getting finish high school before age 20. In
other countries in the region such as Chile, makes it about 80%.
• Second, we have a problem of quality of learning: the fact
serious and that many fall by the wayside, he adds that those who follow
studying learn little. Successive editions of the PISA tests show
as Uruguay is losing positions in the region and is increasingly away from the
countries that perform well.
• Third, we have a problem of equity: dropout and poor
lessons are not distributed evenly among the students, but punish
the weakest. In contradiction to the ideals of Varela, our teaching has
ceased to be an instrument to generate equal opportunities. Teaching
Uruguay today does not diminish the differences of origin, but the increases.
• The fourth and final problem is a deterioration in the climate of coexistence in centers
study. Our schools and colleges no longer safe places. Teachers
They must exercise their profession in an anonymous and hostile environment where it is difficult to feel
rewarded with the task. Verbal and physical attacks become increasingly
frequent and come to involve parents.
This deterioration is not due to lack of money. In the course of the last decade, budget
long education has doubled in constant pesos. It still makes sure
It takes more effort, but the large amount of additional resources ought generate
improvements that did not come. Nor can it be explained in terms of failure and poverty
marginality. Other countries with more social problems than ours are improving

while we do not. Nor is it true that poor educational results
are due to that we are including many people who until now did not study. All
South America, with the sole exceptions of Uruguay and Argentina, are getting
include more people at the same time improving the quality of learning. in terms
comparison, we have included a few and we have seriously deteriorated.
The hard truth is that our educational system is exhausted. An administrative structure
and pedagogical work well getting half a century does not serve to meet the
current conditions. The problem is that the Uruguayan society has changed a lot and the system
education changed very little. What we need is to introduce profound changes.
Only then can we make education a real engine for development
in the coming years, and only then can we hope that teaching again
generating positive effects on equal opportunities and social integration. In
this specific sense, we believe that in Uruguay today, a good
education policy is the best social policy.
Our vision: education at the service of citizens
We want an educational system that puts the focus on all students. Each student
account. The social relevance of education in general and of each educational institution
particular should be measured in terms of increased opportunities for academic achievement
(Learning) of the student body. In light of these convictions, education policy
we propose consists of five main lines:
• Strengthening policy of citizen control over the educational system. The model
normally used in democracies to govern education is to put
educational policy in the hands of a Ministry of Education under supervision
parliamentarian. The Uruguayans have a different institutional framework, but
it does not oblige us to give citizens control. The proposed solution
is separated from the leading role of education (set national goals,
allocate resources, evaluate results), to be performed under the control of Parliament,
the organization of the provision of educational services (which is the exclusive task
ANEP). This distinction is consistent with art. 202 of the Constitution and looks
reinforced by the job description corresponding to MEC in the last Act
Education (art. 51 of Law 18.437). Respect for autonomy is compatible with
greater citizen control over the strategic guidelines and national goals
in education.
• Strengthening policy centers. There is an international consensus
sense that a good education does not produce the money or organizational or
laws or teachers considered in isolation, but establishments
getting real work as professional learning communities.
After arguing the point for years, there is now broad consensus in the country
about the rules of the game of our fundamental education (for example,
the rules for allocating teaching positions or system of inspections) attempt
daily against the formation of strong educational communities. He
challenge now is to turn that consensus into concrete practice. We need centers
with its own identity and ability to make decisions within the framework of objectives
national and universal vocation. The identity of each educational institution
will be constructed from flexible and contextualized educational proposals that,
in its diversity, meet the needs of students and their communities

territorial.
• Strengthening policy of the directors. An autonomous educational institution
You need to be provided with an authority itself with leadership skills. Can
be an individual director of a management team or community
teaching as a whole, but the important thing is that you can make decisions within
of self-study center. This involves moving a portion of the power of decision
centers, including the ability to manage significant amounts
resource. To achieve this, among other things, we must place greater emphasis on
management training. Skills needed to manage are not the
same that are needed to teach. Many times when a teacher is awarded
making director lost a good teacher and a bad manager earns.
• strengthening educational policy. A broad international consensus is that the
teachers (especially teachers and classroom) are the single most factor
important to achieve quality education. But in Uruguay suffer serious
inadequacies in this area. Our teacher training has many symptoms
crisis and exercise conditions make the profession unattractive to
Many people. In this context, we need to do at least three things: ensuring
quality teacher training, improve conditions for exercise of the function
teaching (including salary, but goes well beyond that), and to incorporate the
people teaching profession today is not dedicated to that task.
• territorial decentralization policy. We need an education system
closer to the population and in contact with government authorities
departmental and local. This implies changes in administrative structures
existing. A change of this nature is not achieved by decree: it is built. will be
specialized capabilities necessary to generate locally run parallel
a gradual transfer of resources and responsibilities. We are in favor
to the creation of intermediate levels of management, operating between authorities
national and departmental. This implies the creation of regional subsystems
technical assistance, monitoring, management and control of results.
Our proposals
Measures to be promoted by the Parliament:
MEASURE 1
Partial repeal of Law 18.437 (General Education Act) that includes at least
the following points: redefining the role of directors voted by teachers in
CODICEN and decentralized advice eliminating the requirement of 10 years
experience in public education for membership or advice Codicen
decentralized (return to the previous regime); removing the obligation to call the
National Education Congress (which would become optional); modification of Section L
Article 63, moving to the MEC the power to defend titles of teacher training. He
common objective of these changes is to reduce the weight of corporate interests
the governance of education.
Also, current powers of Codicen and advice will be reallocated
decentralized, in order to simplify and accelerate the management, improve coordination and
strengthen the enforceability of the administration, without prejudice to subsequent control.

Measure 2
Redesign and strengthening the national system of learning assessment, depending
of the following principles:
• providing the service may not be the same as evaluated and
• decisions with political meaning (in this case: why and how they evaluated) must be
taken by an agency subject to parliamentary scrutiny.
In particular, the incorporation of the Institute for Educational Assessment will promote the
MEC orbit (where it will operate as a decentralized organ) and the modification of its
directory, reducing the weight of the representatives of ANEP.
Measure 3

Development of a replacement law proposed creation of the Open University, which grants range
university teacher training and integrate the efforts made today both
public and private. The university-level teacher training should cover
from initial teacher education to high school, in all branches of the
Teaching in charge of ANEP.
ACTION 4
While the above measure is not executed, the boards of the various branches of
Teaching should be selected through transparent procedures to a total of
200 teachers per year for the five years of the government,
that 10 groups will be formed to study Specialization and Master
the educational area. The courses will be taught by both academic institutions
public and private, from a common core. The institutions that taught the
Courses will be selected through a bidding process organized by the MEC. The
candidates may choose the institution in which they conducted their expertise, and
MEC will have a budget fund to pay an annuity for registered teachers.
Teachers who join the program will commit to continue working
teaching for a minimum of five years after obtaining the title. Objective
for the five years 700 teachers and teachers with master's degree and 300 with title
specialization
ACTION 5
Creating a program in the orbit of the MEC to fund 150 scholarships of excellence
aimed at teachers in activity, similar to the logic of the National System
Researchers. The scholarships will operate as a bonus and will not be taxed by the
Income tax. Recipients will be selected by competitive examination, including
They will especially appreciate the innovative pedagogical and institutional practices. At
For secondary education, it will also feature as an advantage the fact of working in a center
studies that have a low attrition rate, or has dropped significantly in
previous years. In return for the scholarship, recipients developed tasks
centers and support teachers and tutoring teachers newcomers to the system.
ACTION 6
Creating a program in the orbit of the MEC, called "Teachers century", aimed at
renew and strengthen teaching practice through training of teachers abroad
and school administrators. The program will provide scholarships to graduates

high school aspiring to become professionals in these functions, in order to be formed
abroad (a list of countries and institutions that ensure high levels will be developed
excellence). The scholarship will cover tuition costs and maintenance for a period of
up to four years. The approval of qualifications obtained will be conducted by MEC. The
Scholarship recipients will sign a commitment that force and return home
to work in teaching a minimum of three years for every year they have completed in the
outside. At least part of that teaching should be done in training center
national teachers, both public and private.
Measure 7
Creation of budget funds to be administered by the MEC (as is done today,
for example, with the Commitment Education Program) to which they can aspire centers
public education, following authorization by the authorities of ANEP. Examples:
• strengthening edilicio Fund (which would include the possibility of agreements with the
departmental governments and MTOP).
• Building Fund educational projects
• Fund teacher training
• Fund to support institutions that serve vulnerable populations
Applications to be submitted by the institutions must take the form of
evaluable projects; background continuity (or the opportunity to introduce new
funds) will be linked to the results of the evaluation; money entering the system
education in this way will always be complementary (never substitute) allocation
Basic budget of each center.
Measure 8
To mandate by law discounting school hours not issued as a result of
industrial action at all levels of education, except in the event that
establish formal and duly audited recovery plans for total hours
You lost.
Measures to be promoted by the Executive Branch:
Action 9
CAIF creation of new centers, and others with similar function to the extent necessary to
achieve universal schooling for children aged three years and complete 4
years. An estimated 120 additional centers will be needed, which would be a
investment of 30 million dollars, plus about 13 million annually
to cover operating costs. During priority will be given to children
They are growing up in households in the lowest income quintile. This measure is part of what
CAIF proposed in relation to the Plan under the "social policies", but also has a
specific educational sense. A second floor (middle school) is not built on
a fragile first floor (primary education) and a good first floor is not built if no
good foundation (early childhood education and care in early childhood).
Measure 10
Commitment to the creation of national education policy as a requirement to apply
the Senate came to the three political members Codicen. The procedure

it would be: a) the Ministry of Education prepares a draft document
where the broad lines of educational policy and objectives for the five defined
(Similarly to how it does today the Ministry of Housing, fixing lines that mark
the performance of other public agencies, such as the Mortgage Bank or the Agency
National Housing); b) this document is submitted for consideration and approved in
Council of Ministers; c) a statement that includes a public commitment to be drawn
systematically taking decisions that are consistent with that policy; d) the signature and
disclosure of that commitment will be made by the executive branch and political status
to submit for consideration by the Senate the name of a candidate
to integrate Codicen. Before granting permission dela there should be a hearing and
presentation of the candidate to the appropriate Commission.
Measures to be promoted by the education authorities:
Measure 11
Changes to the rules for selecting directors. Between them:
• Deepening training in management and leadership, to be dictated by a variety
both public and private institutions (including management schools).
• Reduction of the number of years of teaching that is required as a prerequisite for
to aspire to an address (the current demands are excessive in terms
compared).
• Minimum of three years in the same establishment for directors
in ERA, and two years for directors who do not occupy positions effective.
• Requirement of developing a center plan as a condition confirmed
in office at all schools in the system (UTU already does). With
approval of the plan, the authorities may grant funds for its implementation.
• Evaluation of results of the proposed plan as a condition for confirming the
Director in charge.
• the directors be granted the ability to select members of his body
using procedures based teaching. Provision must be taken
to apply this measure to gradual and respectful of the rights acquired.
Measure 12
Changing the system of choice of teaching hours and Secondary Education
technique, which includes at least the following innovations:
• obligation to maintain the chosen hour for at least two years;
• the right to maintain the hours in a facility once the period ended
two years, whatever the hierarchical scale status of teachers, with the only
condition to have the agreement of management;
• concentration coordination hours / correction / school planning
where the teacher has a greater number of hours.
• progressive move towards a system of teacher / position.
MEASURE 13
As part of a policy to strengthen the centers, or authorize the creation
increase of expenditure, maintenance, investment and recruitment
Extra, to be administered by the centers, under a surrender

accounts ex post.
MEASURE 14
Profound renewal of the inspection system by transforming the current inspections
subject and center of a system of pedagogical-organizational audit by
a multidisciplinary team (composed of teachers, management experts, specialists
in educational architecture, etc.) to be installed several days in an institution and assess
all aspects of its operation (including interviews with students, parents and
graduates). After that period, the audit team makes a return to all
the educational community (administration, teachers, staff, parents), complemented
a self-assessment exercise. From there comes an improvement plan that will be the point
reference for future audit. The replacement of the old regime of inspections
the new will progressively.
MEASURE 15
Developing a policy to improve teacher salaries, associated with improvements
in terms of training and performance. Seniority no longer be the main factor
determining the amount of remuneration. In advanced stages,
and in order to encourage teamwork, the performance will not be considered
only the individual but the teacher from the school where he works.
MEASURE 16
Development of training courses, refresher and specialization for teachers
activity, consistent with the requirements of each subsystem (eg specializations
second language, use of ICT in educational processes, evaluation, conflict resolution,
students with disabilities). Participation in the courses will be held in time
paid. The final diplomas awarded only after having passed an instance of
Rating. The improvement and specialization activities may be conducted both
at home and abroad.
MEASURE 17
Modification and generalization of the system of teacher training sabbatical.
They may aspire to this benefit every six years, effective teachers with Grade 4 or
higher. During the sabbatical year teachers continue to receive full pay
but I will be released from teaching classes. In return must undertake
to develop a research and development institution under the supervision of
a guardian, or to perform a program of college-level training, either inside or outside
from the country. The due performance of the work plan will be provided promised to
access another sabbatical six years later. Its failure will eliminate that right
and will have a strong negative impact on the assessment.
MEASURE 18
Strengthening of Technical and Teacher Assemblies as spaces for reflection and discussion
pedagogical. budgetary allocations were approved for hiring specialists
nationals and foreigners who make contributions to the work of the ATDs, and for the creation
a line of publications to be managed by the teachers themselves.

MEASURE 19
Creating a program to develop training tools and support to the task
Teaching in coordination with the Ceibal Plan. Software tools should be used
thereby favoring the networking of teachers who perform tasks in places
distant. hours will be remunerated for the education and training of teachers in the
use of these tools.
MEASURE 20
Development of a policy of recruiting new profiles for teaching level
environment, as short-term policy to address the lack of qualified teachers,
especially in some subjects and in some regions of the country. That will appeal
university-educated people who are willing to join the activity
teaching in a regime of tutoring and after receiving a basic teacher training. It is hoped
recruiting professionals who have passed the peak of maximum activity and university students
High profile notes. All of them will be offered a year of teacher training
(Both public and private institutions) and incorporation into the teaching task under the
supervision of a senior teacher. It would work on the basis of annual contracts
part-time, whose results would be subject to renewal. This measure of character
palliative aim to generate short-term improvements while conditions are created for
training new generations of professional teachers.
MEASURE 21
Replacing the curricular content design a curriculum design objectives
staggered teaching, formulated in terms of acquisition of skills and content
high strategic value. Strengthening the link between the tasks of curricular design
and outcome evaluation task that it has been entrusted to the National Institute of
Evaluation (without implying that the assessment task is reduced to this point).
MEASURE 22
To mandate by law the permanent participation of Uruguay in the PISA tests. Realization
representations to the OECD to expand the size of the sample
students that the PISA test is administered in order to generate knowledge
new and more detailed on the distribution of learning deficits in students
Uruguayan. These results will be particularly useful when confronted with those who
the National Institute for Assessment.
MEASURE 23
Implement, in coordination with the National Institute for Assessment and institutions
tertiary education, national proof of completion of secondary education, in order
set out in paragraph 3 of section Educational Assessment Document Agreement
Education May 2010. Students may be submitted to the test
two unfinished. If scoring at proficiency, they will be exonerated
to render these subjects. This creates an incentive for students
prepare and test surrender under appropriate conditions.
MEASURE 24
INeed be entrusted to develop new ways of assessing learning in

line to take on the experiences made in recent years. The purpose
It is to have a system of mandatory tests and curriculum and educational approach,
enabling rapid appropriation of results by the teachers and authorities
education. The system also can be used to assess levels of satisfaction
students, teachers and families.
MEASURE 25
Stepping up the pace of creation of full-time schools, without confusing with
the extended time. The aim is to reach 500 such schools, prioritizing
access of the most vulnerable population. A specific plan of studies (alternative will be created
Urban Schools Program that today is the setting) to increase margins
pedagogical innovation. The policy of creating gardens of time will continue
completely. Progressive conversion of existing gardens and schools Extended Time
Full-time establishments.
MEASURE 26
Curricular reorganization of primary education and elimination of "social pass". The six
years will be organized in three cycles of two years each. Within each cycle operate a
non-cumulative regime conditional promotion and a tutorial system for those
They are promoted in these conditions. The regime implies that the conditional promotion
Students can enroll in the following year despite not having achieved proficiency in the current year.
If you promote the new year, we will also be given for promoted above. This scheme does not
It applies to all students, but those exhibiting moderate deficits in the process
Learning. After a school year, elementary students will be located
into three groups: those who promote, those who promote and conditionally
those who repeat. Conditional promotions are not cumulative: if a student
It does not reach the sufficiency in the year he was promoted to conditionally must
repeat. Remedial classes will be held throughout the year following promotion
conditional.
MEASURE 27
Both for students conditionally promoted to other evidencing
Significant levels of difficulty or lag, remedial classes will be installed in counter-turn
guardians by teachers. In the case of full-time schools or time
extended activity of tutors will be held during school hours, replacing
other activities. These actions tutoring in small groups apply where
not be sufficient inclusive classroom practices. To the extent possible, these
actions will be taken in coordination with the Community Teachers program.
MEASURE 28
Elimination of Integral Diagnostic Unit (IDU) under the Central Governing Council and creation
psycho-pedagogical gradual interdisciplinary cabinets that serve students with
need to support a set of between 2 and 6 establishments in the same
area. In urban Uruguay would require about 280 cabinets. A rate of three professionals
per cabinet, this involves the gradual incorporation of 840 professionals. The renovation
contracts of these professionals should be required as a precondition absence

serious and legitimate objections by the directors of the establishments
they serve.
MEASURE 29
Support program for reading comprehension. Almost half of the pupils aged 15
they are in the education system fall below the level of proficiency in the
PISA reading tests. This failure seriously weigh on their personal development
and professional. The program will seek to improve levels of understanding and generate habits
reading, especially in schools in the most disadvantaged areas. For this
They made compensatory programs by teachers who receive training
specific and remuneration that takes into account the characteristics of the population
attended. In places where possible, the actions of these teachers will be organized
with public libraries present in the area, which will be equipped with materials
suitable. To finance this last component will seek agreements with
departmental governments. To the extent possible, these actions will be
coordination with the Community Teachers program.
MEASURE 30
English in all schools. Public education currently has 948 schools
1,131 urban and rural schools. Of this total, classroom English is taught in 282 schools.
The task is over 445 teachers. There are also courses in the distance English
under the Plan Ceibal, they taught as elective to students in fourth, fifth and sixth
of urban schools. Our goal is that all primary school pupils
English courses receive up to A2 level. The first step will be to strengthen and reorient
the "Ceibal in English." program This involves increasing the number of remote teachers and
expand production of support materials. The second step will be to increase education
face, without excluding the support of electronic media. To achieve this will sign
cooperation agreements with private educational institutions operating in English
the country as well as with organizations and foreign governments. The aim of these agreements
would gain access to educational resources, support materials and technological resources
as educational software. It will also draw the National Volunteer System for
recruit teachers who, after due training, classroom work under monitoring
masterpiece. This resource will reinforce classroom teaching at a moderate cost,
since (as noted in the "social policies" section) volunteers not be charged
salary, although it will FONASA coverage and pension contributions.
MEASURE 31
Strengthen Technology Centers Elementary Education in each department, as
how to promote the incorporation of technologies to pedagogical work. Creation of
Technology Centers that provide simultaneous support for schools, colleges and technical schools.
Use technological support to create programs "classrooms sisters" with
national and foreign institutions.
MEASURE 32
As part of the effort to develop new institutional arrangements, will
implementing a pilot program involving the creation of establishments covering
six years of primary and three of the basic cycle of secondary education, in regime

full time. These establishments will be introduced other innovative initiatives,
as teachers or coordinators of related subjects.
MEASURE 33
The development of entrepreneurial skills be included as curricular objective, and
the matter will dictate courses in primary education, in the media and programs
teacher training. The curriculum of these courses will be held in dialogue with industry
Private and existing academic programs in the university sector.
MEASURE 34
A level of secondary education, an organization of the curriculum will be encouraged in three rings
pedagogical priority:
• the first ring will consist of curriculum areas considered high
priority: languages ​​(including Spanish language and a second language), mathematics and
Science. In each of these areas will be required courses and remedial courses
for those who do not reach satisfactory levels of achievement. The objectives to be achieved
these courses will conform to international standards.
• The second tier will consist of high priority curriculum areas and transit
Obligatory: computer, entrepreneurial skills, expression, values ​​and training
citizen.
• The third ring will consist of complementary access curriculum areas
conditioned (literature, philosophy, art history, technology, advanced courses
science, etc.). It may opt for these courses to the extent that it is not
must take remedial courses. The offer in this third ring may vary from
establishment to another, according to decisions to be taken on site.
To facilitate the operation of this component could be installed system
credits.
MEASURE 35
They will strengthen and extend programs that have successful results in recent years,
as Promejora and Technological Baccalaureate Council for Technical Education (former UTU)
MEASURE 36
Creation of agricultural Baccalaureate distance as a way to facilitate the retention of
family in rural areas. This new Bachelor combine the use of technology
providing distance education classroom actions, for which the cover
travel and lodging costs. The program will be organized in coordination with the
departmental governments and include a system of incentives for producers
area participate in financing costs.
MEASURE 37
Studying creation program goes further, to offer internships to
Students who have completed high school before age 20. The program will aim
the dual purpose of creating incentives to complete secondary education and guidance to the
formal high school graduates who do not aspire to make tertiary studies economic activity.

MEASURE 38
Creating a program to detect and promoting excellence, allowing access
scholarships and study opportunities to students who obtain high academic performance
sustained over time.
MEASURE 39
Development of a set of measures to ensure inclusion in education
people with disabilities. Including sign language and Braille reading it will be incorporated
as optional subjects in the curriculum, and program will be designed
tax for the purchase of software and assistive technology (AT) reductions.
MEASURE 40
Creating a computer platform through the Ceibal Plan, aimed at mothers or adults
references, in order to encourage home support the educational process. Use
this network to offer parent education programs under the Program
Responsible Fatherhood (see chapter "Social Policy").
MEASURE 41
In the field of non-formal education, it will work with civil society organizations
civil and the business sector to create a program of intergenerational cooperation,
aimed at facilitating the transfer of knowledge and life experience of retired people
young, in preparation for joining the workforce. Participants adults
this program will act as guardians of one or more young people, helping them prepare
to perform an activity or occupation while serving as a reference and
support process improvement and personal development.
MEASURE 42
Also in the area of ​​non-formal education, it will work in mixed mode
job training within the National System of Care. Through INEFOP and BPS,
It will be formed and will give young people work experience to put them in a position to provide
some of the services offered within the system.
Measures relating to higher education:
MEASURE 43

Will after many years of delay, compliance with Law 17,296, Article 296
Montevideo ordered construction of a university town for young people from
Interior. Over a thousand Uruguayan hampered (and sometimes unable their
studies) as a result of this failure that has dragged on since 2001.
MEASURE 44
As part of the effort to develop higher education in the countryside,
We support the development of UTEC and promote the realization of the University of
North, on the basis of the currently existing supply in the Northern Regional University
of the Republic. A system of promotion and quality assurance monitor allows
the progress of university decentralization according to exacting standards.

MEASURE 45
The processes of creating new universities and tertiary institutions will be adapted,
state and private, based on solid and sustainable institutional projects. The
new institutions should not be limited to traditional university model.
The existence of a variety of polytechnic institutions in character format
university institute, properly linked network, will mobilize resources
training underutilized today.
MEASURE 46
institutional mechanisms and articulation of policies will be installed for the
whole system of higher education, with the participation of the Ministry of Education
and the presence of actors in the system. The higher education policy must
articulated with the broad guidelines of national education.
MEASURE 47
The creation of a National Accreditation Agency put the country will be promoted
in line with international best practices and the policies agreed in
Mercosur. The agency must work with complete independence and should offer technical
voluntary accreditation programs for both public and private institutions. Those
programs will include a component of self-evaluation and an external evaluation by
even experts who will act according to pre-defined standards. It's necessary
promote a culture of quality and transparency that allows access to information
relevant by the students and their families and employers. A
experience that Uruguay must embark is the design profiles expenses
in terms of skills. In this way Europe is the Tuning Project.
MEASURE 48
The offer graduate plays an important role both in the research process,
development and innovation, and strengthening the faculty of their own
tertiary institutions. Systems still under development as the Uruguayan, each
Once they require teachers with higher degrees (especially the doctorate). From the
Government institutions will rely on the fulfillment of this process. It will be promoted
expanding the current offer postgraduate university quality, facilitating
agreements with institutions abroad, and permanent mechanisms will be established
scholarships for postgraduate studies, both at home and abroad with clauses
return.
MEASURE 49
The internationalization of higher education system will be encouraged. Mobility
teachers, graduates and students helps improve academic quality and create
latest and open to an ever changing reality institutions. The Union
European driving this process with its European Knowledge and in the region
has launched the regional accreditation mechanism ARCUSUR, which involved the
Most countries in South America. Uruguay need to design a strategy
university international integration that involves both public institutions and
private. Since the government will make efforts to advance this task, within the
strict respect for the autonomous regime. We will encourage exchange programs

and expedite the process of defining graduate profiles that take into account the
international trends.
MEASURE 50
Initiatives to support the development of research are presented in Section
corresponding to research, development and innovation in a country truly
productive.

CULTURE
Culture is not a set of reserved activities for a sophisticated elite, nor
anything that appears on a printed page or occurring on stage.
A cultural asset worthy of the name only if it helps us develop our sensitivity,
enriches our understanding of the world, improve the quality of our living and we
It encourages a more creative exercise of our freedom. Our cultural policy
They will be aimed at increasing the access of all Uruguayans to goods genuinely
cultural.
The current difficulties
The last two governments have spent much money on cultural policy. Only
between 2010 and 2013, the budget implemented by the Ministry of Education and Culture passed
just over 100 to over $ 150 million (nearly $ 400,000 per day
of the year). The situation is not of economic hardship. However, many Uruguayans continue
without a real opportunity to enrich their cultural options menu.
The main problems that have prevented a better use of resources
they invested in these years are:
• Cultural policies driven by the last two governments have bias
political. Many of the activities did not intend to promote
culture in general, but supporting those who reproduce views of reality,
justifications and "stories" that favor a specific political cause.
• The range of cultural activities has been uneven geographically:
Montevideo continued to concentrate a large proportion of the resources, facilities and
activities. The policy of "MEC Centers" has been a major effort, but had
orientations and very unequal achievements. Despite the declarative, the national government
He played down support for the holding of our traditions and culture.
• policies promoting culture were not coordinated with policies
education. Thus the ability to make the education system is lost
Formal as a tool for the promotion of culture, was lost while the
opportunity to appeal to cultural events to give more appealing
formal education.
• In the course of these years there have been successes, such as strengthening Sodre Ballet,
but the overall result is not up to the amount of resources mobilized.
Some of the major projects announced never came to be implemented. Such
in the case of the National System of Museums, which did not stop being an organization. In
other cases are presented as achievements are just what continuities. For example,
creation of the Institute of Performing Arts was actually a restructuring of the former
Performing Arts Department of the Culture of the MEC. The Pedro Museum

Figari is basically a new name for an existing gallery at the Museum
National Historic. Something similar happens with the National Documentation Centre
Musical Lauro Ayestaran. Genuine unless the results are announced.
Our vision is a pluralistic culture and national level
We aspire to develop pluralistic cultural policies (ie, detached from everything
party politics) bias, to reach the largest possible number of Uruguayans. Strongly
We especially care about cultural policies reach people with low predisposition
cultural consumption, either because they have little chance of access or because they have
weak prior cultural accumulation. We understand that the role of cultural policies
It is to improve the quality of cultural assets, to facilitate access to these goods
and strengthening the ability to appreciate and choose the part of citizens, without trying
direct them in their tastes and orientations.
A richer cultural life means a richer use of freedom. So we aspire
to promote pluralism and multiculturalism are essential for the reformulation of a
national cultural matrix that it is not stuck in the past or disconnected from the world.
Recover our cultural matrix is ​​to recover our ethical force as a nation. The state
You must assume its responsibility in that process.
Our proposals
The main initiatives we intend to push from the government are
following:
Culture positive
The degree of cultural development of a society is reflected not only in theater productions and
the number of libraries. It is also visible in the quality of daily treatment in
public and transport areas, state parks and bathrooms
public, in greater or lesser kindness of pedestrians and drivers in traffic. The
boy builds big. And boy has deteriorated us in recent years.
The Culture Plan in positive consist of a series of awareness campaigns and
encouraging positive habits that aim to improve the quality of our coexistence and
promote the values ​​of respect, kindness and care of public places. For
the development of this media campaign State will take advantage, are
will sign agreements with private media (promoting actions of social responsibility
Business) and will be coordinated with ANEP to generate forms of articulation with action
education.
Cultural Tourism Plan
Cultural tourism is a booming industry in the world. More and more people travel with
It intends to develop tourist activities that allow them to approach and understand
new cultures, meet lifestyles, familiar with other customs and traditions.
Cultural Tourism Plan, to be developed jointly by the MEC, the Ministry of
Tourism and various provincial governments, will bet to promote cultural tourism in
Uruguay, both in its domestic tourism as its foreign-oriented version.
Cultural tourism programs will be articulated on the calendar of festivities and
They will aim to link the history, cultural heritage and geography in circuits that include
museums, urban spaces and cultural centers both public and private. In those

stage events, small permanent plays and shows developed
Music to suit the historical background and the characteristics of each
enclosure. The purpose is to transport visitors a brief, artistic and dynamic
another time and context, and you will receive information while being entertained.
Reserving certain week days is foreseen for schools and colleges, so
students learn history "movement".
A special form of cultural tourism is ethnotourism built in dialogue with
cultural and natural heritage which refers to ancestral character spaces, mainly
Indian and colonial world. Among the actions envisaged include conditioning the lazaretto
and slave cemetery located within the premises of Ancap, which includes brokers
underground of the early eighteenth century.
Culture our Plan
In Uruguay there is a low rate of reading books, which is particularly serious in the
Interior (Montevideo doubles reading relative to the rest of the country). In addition,
in recent years the official culture has reduced the cultivation of our own tradition
culture, and he has been replaced with a strong emphasis on a few figures: Torres García
and in the arts Figari (Figari bypassing the thinker), Benedetti and Galeano
as representatives of contemporary letters. Important figures of our
cultural traditions have been neglected (Acevedo Diaz Herrera and Reissig, Florencio
Sanchez, Carlos Reyles, brothers Vaz Ferreira, Jose Enrique Rodo, Agustini,
Arturo Ardao, among many others). This exclusionary policy not only impoverishes our
cultural landscape but weakens the ability to understand ourselves.
The Culture Our Plan will promote the broad and plural rescue our own path
Cultural, prioritizing access for new generations to this common heritage. For
that will include the following measures:
• Coordination with ANEP to include courses on culture in Uruguay
curricula of secondary education.
• Editing classics of literature and thought Uruguayans have become
inaccessible.
• Programs that allow visits to museums to appreciate the richness and variety of our
visual arts tradition. These programs will address students of education
Formal but also articulate with social policies.
• Programs visiting urban spaces of equity, also articulated
formal education and social policies.
• Intensive use of the Internet to bring together the new generations
our cultural tradition at large.
• Use of network media in state hands.
Culture Plan country
It is oriented to promote the decentralization of services in the territory plan
cultural quality and opportunities to enhance the capacity of appreciation.
There is currently a strong centralization in Montevideo regarding the interior, and the center
Montevideo from the rest of the city. In an environment of few blocks concentrates
Performing a lot of publicly owned facilities (Teatro Solis Auditorio Adela
Reta, Sala Verdi, Nelly Coitiño, Zavala Muniz, Zitarrosa room, Vaz Ferreira). In the rest of
country, facilities are scarce or are in poor condition, with some notable exceptions.

The Culture Country Plan proposes:
• Within 10 years, providing about 30 places inside and 10 districts
Montevideo performing arts equipment with a similar quality to the Chamber
Zavala Muniz. They also must be able to project and program cinema.
• Create a national network of theaters using the infrastructure
wasted in many cities.
• Create a national network of Shows linked to those rooms by means of a
adequate coordination with the departmental directorates of Culture.
• Reorganize the National Comedy, bringing to a scheme contests
season, to ensure the renewal and quality of their proposals by
selection process by jurors.
• Provide the SODRE of a decentralization policy, for which you can take
I made reference to the ballet by Julio Bocca.
• Using social networks to learn about local needs and
promote events.
• Promote the organization of regional events, promoted simultaneously by
several provincial governments.
Culture and education
It is a plan to achieve better coordination between education policy and
cultural policies. In addition to the initiatives mentioned in the previous plans, are
He proposes:
• Provide support to ANEP in the design and implementation of courses is artistic awareness and
cultural.
• Incorporating Corporate Responsibility Matrix (see section "Policies
Social In a country of opportunities) a set of stimuli directed to
private companies ensure regular presence of writers, playwrights,
musicians, sculptors, painters, etc. working with students, promoting
direct interaction in the making.
• To support the continuity and strengthening of valuable training initiatives exist
orbit both public and private. Examples: the School of Dramatic Art
dependent on the Municipality of Montevideo and the various initiatives
training in the field of cultural management.
• Facilitate market entry employment of those who have decided to form
in the area of ​​culture. It should aim to have the addresses of culture, museums,
houses of culture, cultural tours, etc. They are occupied by cultural managers,
librarians, museum director and guides. Otherwise, the dream of
Cultural Uruguay hope will not happen without executing fit.
Create Culture Plan
It is oriented to support cultural creators and encourage the emergence of plan
new figures. Among the initiatives to boost include:
• Creation of a fund for emerging artists, aimed at those who need
State support to carry out or to publicize their work. With the huge amount
Each year MEC distributes grant funds at issue in management is
It could afford a fund to help editing, production and distribution of works.
• Strengthen ICAU through greater cooperation of private (donations

tax deductible).
• Policy coordination with private actors to give dynamism to the market
commercialization of cultural products.
• Reallocation of spending now makes the Culture of the MEC, giving priority
the transparency of procedures and the definition of priority criteria.
MAB Plan (Museums, Archives and Libraries)
The country needs a policy to strengthen and better use of its museums,
archives and libraries. The MAB is to contribute to this goal through measures such as:
• Improving the level of staff salaries, conditioned on requirements
training and certification.
• Support training experiences in the area, such as that undertaken by the Faculty of
Humanities and Education at the University of the Republic.
• Reorganization of public museums through a policy aimed at improving the
quality offered to users.
• Policy incentives for private museums fulfill a similar process.
• Strengthening the training of archivists.
• Reorganization of the system of public records, to avoid the difficulties of access
and overlapping services.
• Move toward full digitization of the files.
• Definition of a general policy that emphasizes public libraries orientation
user, the presence in the neighborhoods (for what it is possible to exploit the MEC centers)
and the refurbishment of physical spaces to the characteristics and needs
the users.
• profound restructuring of the National Library, you should definitely sign their
patrimonial character library and archival aimed at addressing researchers.
• Better use of underutilized public libraries such as the Library
Central High School located in the ARTIs.
• Update training programs for librarians.
Institutional reform
• Restructuring of the National Culture of the MEC, which must go to work
in five areas: Music, (which is to recreate the area of ​​musical activities
worked in Room Vaz Ferreira) Performing Arts, Literature and Publications (to be
recreated), Plastic and Visual Arts, and Cultural Coordination Activities
England (to be established in coordination with departmental governments).
• This restructuring must be accompanied by the consequent redeployment of staff
and hiring of qualified technicians.
• Adaptation of the current Institute of Performing Arts, stimulating system
co-productions that accommodates different actors and theatrical producers in the country.
• To prioritize the area of ​​Visual Arts of the National Culture
independently of the National Museum of Plastic and Visual Arts, giving
accommodate different currents.
• Strengthening of the Institute of Cinema and Audiovisual, to attune to growth
of the audiovisual industry in the country.
• Strict compliance with Law 18,384 (Status of the Artist Act and related trades)
in procurement by the State.

• Creation of National Courts of Environment, Planning and Cultural Heritage, which
intervene with conflict of interest issues in these three great
areas.
• Creation of the National Ombudsman for the Environment, Planning and Cultural Heritage
under the legislative and technical autonomy Power.

Agenda National Party government
Chapter 3

A country truly
productive

Agenda National Party government
Chapter 3

A truly productive country
Introduction


If we want a better life for all Uruguayans, we have to produce more and get
be competitive in an increasingly demanding world. For a more just society
It is distributed, but that is not enough to assure everyone a real being. The
Uruguayan economy has grown in recent years, but still a long way
go.
Having a productive country requires, above all, lower our costs in relation to the
costs of our competitors. For that to happen, the state must stop being a
bad partner to our entrepreneurs. We need to lower utility rates, reducing
the weight of the hidden tax. We need instruments to control inflation
not seriously affect the exchange rate. We need to generate a "devaluation
logistics ", creating the conditions for investment in infrastructure was not done
in years. We need to restore our roads, more used and worn every day,
and to develop a rail network serving the production. We need to recover
the dynamism of our ports.
While not making this kind of effort, our growth prospects
They will remain very dependent on the international price of agricultural products. Y
as this is a factor that Uruguayans do not control, we remain too
vulnerable to any changes in the context.
Having a productive country recover also requires fairness in the management of
labor relations. Investment and employment suffer in a hostile climate. We need
a stable legal framework, dealing in a balanced manner to all parties. We need
a culture of negotiation and agreement to replace the current culture of conflict.
We need to reverse the detours that threaten the freedom of work.
A productive country also needs a well-organized trade policy which is directed
from a Ministry of Foreign Affairs it has regained prominence.
The Uruguay is now a commercially isolated country hostage of a Mercosur that has been
denatured. Foreign policy based on ideological affinities, which was driven
for the last two presidents, it has generated a lot of damage. We need less
presidential diplomacy and more professional diplomacy. We need more diplomacy
focused on the commercial and densely connected with economic operators. Uruguay is not
a country that has great role in matters of international politics, but
faces great challenges of trade policy. We must mobilize our people
more prepared to tackle these problems.
A country also needs productive sector policies that favor development
agriculture, industry and services. The increase in international prices has disguised
some disturbing facts, such as the weakening of our meat production. The

tourism industry remains highly dependent on the region it has been shaken by the
decisions of our neighbors. The same goes for such an important sector as the
construction. We need measures to help overcome these challenges and enable progress
diversification of our economic activity. For that we also need to advance
in technology development and innovation as part of the production strategy.

ECONOMIC POLICY
Our country has seen strong economic growth since 2003. The context
external and the quiet revolution in our country and other productive sectors generated
significant growth in exports. Add to that the added strength of consumption
and domestic private investment.
Since 2012 this growth has become more laborious, partly because of
changes that occur or are announced in the external environment (such as rate hike) and
partly due to its own imbalances. Currently there are no cause for alarm, but several
yellow lights have been turned on. Under these conditions it becomes more important
never the stabilizing role of public policies. We have a responsibility to the
future to stop being an economy acceleration and braking generations.
Macroeconomic balances are not static. Many variables affect them
and some are presented as a fact that we do not control. The heavy weight of context
external is an example of how difficult it is to modify the horizon of possibilities.
The main task of governments is therefore to take advantage of conditions
favorable and cushion the impact of unfavorable. Monetary and fiscal policies are
its main instruments.
At this very moment, the conditions that serve as backdrop to our activity
They are changing or upcoming economic change. For that matter assess strengths
and weaknesses of our production and the degree of alignment
different policies that can help us cope with changes in the economic cycle.
The actual situation

• Our export activity is focused on activities that best
we do: food production and agro-industrial goods. Are you
activities (along with other related to the service sector) found a stage
External positive and often responded with excellence. We have taken a
jump in quantity and quality.
• Recent governments have not taken advantage of this positive shock to encourage
the development of other sectors. The policy mistakes made the
bonanza was marred by problems we subtracted macro competitiveness. He
exchange rates, high utility rates and inefficiencies in the production of goods
public infrastructure and security as diversification prevented it had
It has been possible in this context. Outside our areas of excellence, Uruguay
production remains a project rather than a reality.
Monetary-policy change
• For most of the time operated a managed floating regime for
the exchange rate, inflation targeting to price controls. To maintain
inflation below two digits are alternated between the use of the means of payment and
use of interest rate very short term. When that failed, he resorted
the lace and unorthodox policy measures such as delaying or reducing settings
public tariffs and administered prices as well as price agreements with large
surfaces.
• The downward pressure on the dollar caused a loss of competitiveness and a deficit
important in the Central Bank. The highest award for public short-term debt

It was very attractive to investors but very expensive for the state. The cost
monetary policy climbed to 700 million dollars annually. The bank
Central had to be recapitalized.
Fiscal policy
• Government spending grew to represent nearly a third of GDP. Despite falling
evasion and increased formalization, the revenue growth was
behind the increased spending. The primary balance (revenue minus expenses, without
consider paying interest) fell savings equivalent to 4% of GDP to
virtually no savings. If the interest payment is incorporated, the tax result
Total is negative in over 1,000 million from amounts
half of 2012. According to the Report of the Economic and Financial Accountability
Accounts 2013, the authorities expect the overall deficit of the public sector
stand at 3.3% of GDP in 2014 and 3.2% of GDP in 2015.
• The tax structure incorporated progressive taxation on income from
people. One in three employees (about 400,000 people) are contributors
of income tax, a tax that for all purposes it imposed on income
and not on the income of individuals.
• The predominant view in the last two governments is that redistribution
matters is the income, when the international evidence shows that
important is to redistribute opportunities. Not necessarily leads to
the other. In this field, the results have been negative. The increase in spending
public was not returned the citizen in quality public services. Those
areas where the government poured more money (security, health, education, political
social) are those with poor performance.
• This is due in part to a wrong approach, but also problems
management. The tax reform was not accompanied by a reform processes
rest of the public sector. Spending has increased, but has not improved in terms
quality.
• Reducing tax evasion and increasing labor formalization may no longer
They grow as they did before. In parallel, the slowdown
economic and lag in the relationship of prices in dollars -Regarding affect the region
sectors of significant importance. This context suggests that any
is the government in the coming years must wait at least a slower pace
growth in revenue.
Wage Policy
• The strong demand for labor generated by economic growth, coupled with
role played by the State in the areas of collective bargaining (Tips
Wage), prompted an improvement in employment levels to increase
real wages. However, the activity rate remains low in terms
comparative.
• The form adopted for fixing wages are not included almost no link with
the evolution of productivity, which is the only permanent source of growth.
In this sense he missed an opportunity.
• The process of improvement in the labor market has largely reversed lately
sectors of activity, with a lower rate of wage growth and

drop in labor demand in some of them.
Our vision aligned, consistent and stable economic policies
• The great challenge of Uruguay in the coming years is the diversification of production.
We need to incorporate activities that require quality work to do
better what we do well and start doing well what we do not do.
We are and will be one of the most efficient countries in the production of protein
animal. We also will be a country and service. But we can not stay
there. It is necessary to encourage the development of activities with greater intensity in the
use of knowledge, they are inserted into the value chain of our product
in international value chains. The state has a role to play in this
ground.
• Competitiveness. The possibility of a truly productive Uruguay is
inseparable from a strong external vocation. A small country must have an economy
connected to the world. It is therefore essential progress in terms of competitiveness.
The private sector has had major achievements in this field, but the state must
contribute. We will work for a truly productive and competitive country,
that does not generate inflation uncertainty, an exchange rate that does not weaken us
over our competitors and a "country cost" does not affect the viability of
our productive enterprises. This requires responsible management of
public finances, fiscal deficit controlled and effective coordination of the
monetary, fiscal and wage policies.
• Lower inflation than today. For several years, inflation is above
the official target, which not only impacts on the exchange rate but also on
the trust. Even considering some external factors, such as income from
capital, the main causes of this trend are lack of coordination
between political and resistance to take action when there was scope to do so.
The combination of an excessive increase in spending and an economy virtually
full employment leads to sustained higher prices. This rise
relative has a high potential for damage to a context of weak demand
world. Difficult to propose a truly productive Uruguay if this is not changed
dynamic.
• Sincerity exchange rate. The use of interest rate very short
term as an instrument of monetary policy in a context of strong income
Capital generated a misalignment of the exchange rate that we subtracted competitiveness,
especially in relation to our neighbors. Given this imbalance are needed
prudent actions for the benefit of our exports.
• A responsible government spending. Sound fiscal policy should be based on an estimate
Proper long-term income. The extraordinary income generated
when the product rises above the historic rate should not be confused with
permanent income. This does not mean that public spending can not be
variations in the business cycle, but it is essential not condition costs
permanent to temporary revenues. Only then fiscal policy will be able
to promote growth and protect the quality of life of the population shares
to mitigate the volatility of the cycle.
• Control the fiscal deficit. The fiscal sector suffers from a deficit position for years
that comes from a relaxation of the primary outcome. The imbalance is still

worse it is considering the structural deficit position, and does not consider income
extraordinary. Worrying about the evolution of the deficit is an act of injustice
and irresponsibility toward the next generations of Uruguayans, especially
the weakest.
• A sustainable wage policy. The defense of the purchasing power of workers
It is an essential objective. Real wages should hold above the
cyclical swings. For that policy is sustainable and real wages grow
over time, it is necessary to emphasize higher levels of productivity.
•	Legal security. Economic activity in general and investment in particular,
They need clear and firm rules that give predictability to decision-making and
generate a climate of confidence. Neither the continuous changes of rules or the
public speculation about possible changes help the growth and
improving the quality of life of Uruguayans.
• sustained and stable growth. For the development of all public policies and
improving the quality of life of Uruguayans, it is essential to achieve strong
growth rate over time, and smooth Oscillation
economic cycles. We need to generate growth policies less
dependent on international variables and mechanisms for
the cycles are less pronounced than they have been historically.
Our proposals
Monetary Policy - Exchange
• de-dollarize the economy to increase the effectiveness of monetary policy. In a
dollarized economy is very difficult to make monetary policy. So it is convenient
deepen the process of dollarization, for which we must act on several fronts.
First, unlike what has been happening in recent years,
High priority should be given to meeting inflation targets. Failure
of these public commitments it creates uncertainty and makes it
attractive to the dollar as a store of value. Then you need to propose one
series of specific objectives, such as reducing by stimuli dollarization
credits.
• Autonomy of the Central Bank. Regulatory and policy measures are taken to strengthen
as adequate autonomy to the Central Bank and safekeeping of pressures
generated by the situation.
•	Price fixing. Our government will strengthen the area of ​​antitrust
to protect the interests of society. In an economy like Uruguay
there are many opportunities for improvement in that area, which will result in a
reduction in the cost of living. The rise in prices should not be fought by
political pressures and administrative measures inevitably affect supply and
investment, but understanding the structure of each market.
• coordinated economic policies. While each policy must pursue its own
objectives, it is necessary to ensure their confluence. The Central Bank will lead the strategy
to achieve the inflation target, but it will be necessary to avoid any action
causing currency mismatches. Policy coordination can be
It considered obvious, but it must be reaffirmed in the current Uruguay.

Fiscal policy
• Vocation countercyclical. Our government will emphasize the anchor of fiscal policy
as stabilizing the economic cycle. We intend to generate an agreement on
a fiscal rule to be agreed between the government, the opposition, workers and
entrepreneurs. The introduction of this rule is not synonymous with adjustment or trimming.
In fact, the implementation of the fiscal rule is consistent with the increased spending. The
Importantly, the spending behavior remains associated with the product, and
that funds to dampen oscillations of the business cycle are generated.
For power saving a policy will be designed or selected
funds that manage resources in terms of funding needs
long term.
• permanent social expenditure. In the short term, in a context of possible growth
slowdown, administrators must be careful to increase
permanent spending items and set the tax deductions. Our
commitment to fiscal responsibility for the coming years imposes criteria
that public spending is maintained in real terms within the limits
by the growth of economic activity. This does not imply a waiver
use fiscal policy to improve the quality of public goods and influence
the distribution of opportunities. In particular, an object of expenditure drawn
social standing social spending to keep the safe from the fluctuations of the cycle.
• Reduce unnecessary spending. We come from years in government spending
It was increased without putting too many controls. In that sense, and only in
item in the national budget, our technicians detected the possibility
to improve management in areas such as those associated with "Materials and Services
non-personal "and" Supplies ". These accounted for in the Balance Execution
2013 budget, amounting to 1,300 million (2.3% percentage points
of GDP). You can generate savings in these areas without giving up one goal
important. The key is to identify the points where inefficiency is concentrated,
and the suitability of the instrument used to correct them. For example, in the
If the category of "medicinal and pharmaceutical products" will be possible to get
the same drugs keep coming to the same recipients, while
economies generated by more efficient inventory management, today
ASSE absent.
• Public employees. The number of civil servants has been expanded
markedly in recent years. Currently there are more than 50,000 officials
in 2004. There are more than 280,000 public servants Today links with a
average down more than 20 thousand employees annually. The overall objectives of the
public administration may be satisfied with a lower replacement rate. East
slower growth of public officials respect the needs
functional in areas of extreme social sensitivity as health, education and
security. Similar situation corresponds to more than 17,000 non-public bonds,
within that hierarchy personal assistants, seconded include multiple
advisers, officials duplicate line tasks, etc.
• Public Enterprises. It is necessary to rebuild the primary outcome of enterprises
public, overcoming the damage to mismanagement. They need better
controls and a greater alignment with the direction of economic policy. The
Public companies must focus on providing quality services with rates

that does not originate in a cost structure away from its core business. That
It must also be the central criterion in assessing investment or new business.
It is also necessary to align the management of more than 50 satellite companies, whose
legal field is private law, created in recent years. These companies
funds are used for all Uruguayans but do not have adequate
supervision or control. There has been a bad risk management treasury account
public. So they were generated close to $ 90 million loss in 2013
ANCAP (only a portion of total losses) due to poor management
currency risk.
• Tax savings without loss of performance. The savings mentioned in the last
three points allow generate a tax savings of about 500 million dollars
year. This is only part of the savings that can be achieved without affecting the
State benefits. An important part of taxable income next
government plays in the field of management.
• Quality output. Not all spending increase and improve public policies all
reducing the worse. Good or bad results depend essentially on
the quality of spending, that is, how what is used. To move in this direction,
we intend to create a system of Government Management Internal Audit
permanently dedicated to advise the government and the conduct of
operations and management of resources (material, human and financial). He
System will consist of a set of autonomous units but related audit
by the same methodology. Each unit belongs to the organization that audits
(Ministry, Public Company or body art. 220 and 221 of the Constitution) but not
part of management. So it has the "business knowledge" but maintains
independence. All the units report to a higher authority audit
internal to the highest level of the state structure. Such a body shall have one
exercise technical supervision to regulate, standardize, evaluate and monitor
exercise of the function throughout the state, as well as those enterprises in
which the State participates. Thus there will be at the highest level
decision with elements of judgment to make reliable process monitoring,
correct deviations in relation to the set goals and be responsive to
any impairment. The generation of this system will not attempt to substitute any other,
but to complement traditional forms of surrender of accounts.
• Relief of the tax burden. Our government's agenda includes a number of initiatives
relief of the tax burden aimed at specific groups. Saving public expenditure
superfluous and management improvements are conditions to offset the cost of
These measures, which represent an aggregate of approximately $ 360 million.
Among the greatest impact include:
* Exempt Income Tax to the beneficiaries of Plan "Estamos Contigo" that do not reach the
midpoint of the first tax band. For beneficiaries whose income is
locate in the top half of the first strip, the tax rate will be reduced
from 10% to 5% (see the "Social Policy" In a country of opportunities section).
* Alignment of family allowances amount to paid to
beneficiaries of the Equity Plan for beneficiaries of Plan "Estamos Contigo"
(See the "Social Policy" In a country of opportunities section).
* Deductions from income tax for education expenses and childcare for households
have children under 15 and whose holder is a beneficiary of the Plan "We are

Contigo "(see the" social policies "in a country of opportunities).
* Elimination of the IASS, to understand that retirement savings are not income
and therefore they should not be taxed (see the "Social Security" on A
country that cares for its people).
* Increase of 6 to 20% of the income tax deductions for the payment of rent
in pesos.
* Include exemptions aimed at lowering the cost of housing construction
social services for low-income people (up to 60 UR) using systems
non-traditional construction (see "Social policies" on a country
opportunities).
* Include various tax incentives to encourage the exercise of responsibility
business office in relation to the environment, housing, education,
culture and scientific and technological development (see section "Social Policy"
A country of opportunities in the "Environment" section in a country that cares
its people and sections "Telecommunications" and "Research, development and
Innovation "in a truly productive country).
* Increase the stops to deduct VAT for the purchase of oil production and
freight up to 100% (see sections "Energy" and "Transport
and logistics "in a truly productive Uruguay).
* Lower rate IMEBA up to 20% for small and medium producers
affected by this tax (see the "Power" on a truly Uruguay
productive).
* Eliminate up to 100% of VAT on diesel consumed by the farm. This sector consumes
about 1.5% total sales of oil (see the "Energy" section
A truly productive in Uruguay).
* Allow liquidate quarterly tax credits for VAT to
oil and allow its use in 50% of its value, to pay for the purchase
fuel. These certificates will be valid for 12 months and will not be
endorsable (see "Power" on a truly productive Uruguay).
* To the extent that efficiency improvements permit, will extend the
deductions that reward the effort to educate children (supplemented with
subsidies to those who are not taxed) and the renovation of housing.
* We will try to move toward a Dual Heritage Tax, levied assets
fixed at different rates according to whether or not income generators. This measure
It aspires to stimulate investment.
* The list of necessities is updated with basic VAT rate.
• The future income tax. The National Party elimination of income tax is proposed as
goal of his administration. But it aims to introduce progressively
some improvements that make him a smarter, fairer tax. He
rate at which these changes are made will depend on activity levels
and the state of public finances. Among the innovations to be introduced are counted
amount of deductions for dependent minor children, educational advancement, health and
sport; deductions from holding low-income seniors and
tax credits for heads of households with young children.
• Investments. Improving the competitiveness of the economy depends on
We get down the "country cost". The State has a key role
in that effort, but the current situation is far from that ideal. The government

ending leaves a significant shortfall of investment in road and port infrastructure. He
deteriorating state of our roads has become a serious problem affecting
all productive activity. Urge, therefore, an effort to realize works
have the same effect on the currency devaluation that Uruguayan production:
increase profitability in dollars. We call this a 'logistics devaluation ".
The plan of actions planned are detailed in the following pages.
It is necessary to make a serious effort to identify investment needs
and arrange them in a portfolio. The first step is to improve efficiency
in the budgetary allocation already exists for the area. While it is possible that
better than expected economic scenario allows release additional resources,
the magnitude of investment needs will require other forms of
financing, either in the form of debt or equity, channeling funds
directly (stocks, bonds, loans) or indirect (capital funds and
debt).
They will be analyzed for each financing alternatives available and
evaluate the possibility of promoting infrastructure funds, whose role in this type
funding is increasing. Implementation mechanisms and financing
will depend on the degree of urgency of the projects.
The sources of funding from banks, multilateral agencies and
local and foreign institutional investors, will be available to the extent
in certain micro and macroeconomic conditions are met. For instance,
You must have a schedule of bankable projects with returns
attractions, as well as an adequate regulatory and institutional framework. It's necessary
make the necessary lessons from the bad experiences of the PPP.
the existence of a competent body to centralize the projects will be encouraged and
priorities, and to act within the framework of a Strategic Plan known.
• Zero Settlement. The housing problem is one of the largest remnants of
country, especially in response to a low-income segment. The Uruguay century
XXI witnesses that some 200,000 people (50,000 households) live in settlements.
Solutions to this situation requires a comprehensive approach. Part of the solution
It is to bring improvements to viable settlements. We need to generate solutions
including access to clean water, electricity and sanitation infrastructure
and baskets of materials for repair of housing. The other part consists of
relocations, including access to housing outside the settlements that are not
viable. We estimate that our Zero Settlement Plan will cost an average
180 million annually, with a minimum length of ten years (see section
"Zero settlement" in a country of opportunities).
Wage policy
• Wage Councils. The system of collective bargaining and maintain
operate in accordance with the guidelines listed in the "Relations
labor "a genuinely productive country.

• The State shall ensure alignment between wage policy and politics
monetary.
• The public sector wage policy will be associated with improvement efforts
management. Incentives that reward training shall include performance and
accountability for results.

LABOR RELATIONS
A truly productive country needs adequately regulate relations between
the different actors involved in economic life. The state has a role to
play in this area, through instruments such as wage boards. We
we promise to keep those instruments, applying them with equal respect
all parts. If we want a productive country, we need a level playing field
and a state that does not generate uncertainties.
But the labor issue is not confined to the regulation of relations between certain actors.
Broader and more ambitious, the goal should be to ensure the quality and
sustainability of employment for Uruguayans. A quality job is a job
adequately paid, surrounded by good safety and health,
that gives the employee an opportunity to develop their potential. A job
sustainable employment is able to sustain over time without compromising the
opportunities of future generations.
The quality and sustainability of employment require a context characterized by several
components. Including peace and political stability are counted, the capacity for dialogue
social, respect for fundamental rights and international standards
work, a legal environment that gives assurance to all parties, no
discrimination and equal opportunities, an education system capable of enhancing
human talent throughout life, a stable macroeconomic policy,
adequate material and technical infrastructure, international trade and sustainable
active, inclusive and effective social security, environmental stewardship,
promoting entrepreneurship, respect for property rights and conditions
to ensure fair economic competition.
The current difficulties
The action of recent governments has helped thin the social climate, with
adverse results for the country, and have been unsuccessful in their attempts to promote
training and retraining. Among the problems to be overcome as
the following company are:
• We have lost the balance between social actors, because the State failed to
maintain a reasonable equidistance between them. Because of this attitude, the country has
received observations of the supreme governing body on relations
labor: the International Labour Organization (ILO).
• legal certainty has been lost due to the continuous change of rules.
• You have installed a culture that puts the conflict as a first reaction to
any difference without assessing the impact on the climate of coexistence and progress
economy. This attitude deepens the problems affecting competitiveness
our production.

• It has lost sensitivity to the social costs generated by the conflict. The
loss of class time due to strikes (which in 2013 was the most
High in decades) is a notorious example of a more general problem.
• Despite efforts, some problems that affect the quality of life of
workers remain without solution. A particularly important case are
accidents at work. The law criminally responsible employers do not
It provides a real solution.

• Despite the decline in unemployment, there are still groups that face special
difficulties entering the labor market (young people, women with low
formal education, of African descent, people with disabilities) and
other groups, to work in the informal sector, have no protection and
benefits provided by the legislation.
Our vision: working relationships with national consciousness
• we aim to develop and listening for a harmonious industrial relations system to
legitimate interests of all parties, which favors negotiation and search
agreements as an alternative to the culture of conflict.
• assign a role to the State in collective bargaining. That
role should not be limited to setting wage agreements, but must contribute to
build confidence between the parties and promote cooperation generator
opportunities for all.
• The State must also play a key role as guardian of security
legal. The government should ensure compliance with the rights of entrepreneurs
and workers enshrined in the Constitution of the Republic, the Conventions
International Labour ratified by Uruguay and our domestic legislation.
• The rules should be clear, stable and equitable. System
collective bargaining ends up losing legitimacy if any of the parties
systematically considered impaired. The very stability of the system requires
a reasonable and balanced operation.
• It should place special emphasis on active policies to combat unemployment and
informality particularly vulnerable groups.
Our proposals
The main initiatives we intend to push from the government are
following:
Updating the collective bargaining regime
Wages Board are part of our institutions, so that they will
convened and held. But we aim to improve its performance with a set
measures:
• Repeal of Decree 165/006 which regulates the occupations of workplaces,
under which violates freedoms and rights protected by our Constitution:
freedom of labor, business, circulation; property rights and equality
Before the Law. Court rulings strengthen the position against the occupation.
• Form a political / social field that seeks agreements on Trading Act
collectively, and in general on how best to conduct relations
labor, taking into account the recommendations made by the Organization

International Labour Organization (ILO).
• Build a new framework for wage bargaining incorporating consideration
of the following factors: degree of competitiveness of each sector;
heterogeneity of the companies involved; productivity levels; data
macroeconomic fundamentals such as employment trends and inflation.
• In order to provide greater certainty and legal security to the actors enter
lift mechanisms specific companies regarding the agreement signed
for each industry, which can protect companies in serious difficulties
in a framework of transparency and security for all, in order to protect
employment and avoid closure.
• To remove rigidity to the system (and thereby ensure continuity in
any phase of the economic cycle), include safeguard clauses entitling one
renegotiation of agreements in the event of abrupt changes occur
in the context (for example, stages of crisis, recession or sharp slowdown
budget or the economy as a whole) sector. It is necessary to preserve
jobs.
• According to ILO recommendations, it must be established that the
conditions of employment should be reserved for bipartite collective bargaining.
• In terms of conflict resolution, and in accordance with Recommendation
ILO No. 92 concerning voluntary conciliation and arbitration, should be established
that if a dispute was submitted to a conciliation procedure with the
consent of the parties, they shall refrain from strikes and lockouts while trading.
Improved working conditions
A set of measures to improve working conditions and will boost
lives of workers. These include the following:
• Exemption from income tax for the beneficiaries of the Plan "We Contigo" not arrive
the midpoint of the first tax band. For beneficiaries whose income is
locate in the top half of the first strip, the tax rate will be reduced
from 10 to 5% (see the "social policies" in a country of opportunities section).
• Include income tax deductions for educational expenses and childcare, to
Households with children under 15 that are operated by the Plan beneficiary
"We Contigo" (see the "Social Policy" in a country of opportunities).
• Increased Family Allowance common to equate with the AFAM
Equity Plan for beneficiaries of the Plan "We are with you" (see section
relevant in a country of opportunities).
• As an immediate step, give the holiday pay the same treatment
He gave the bonus, in order to avoid "jumps" on the fringes of income tax.
• Sport at work. Plan aimed at implementing physical activity programs in the
work places. Each program is tailored to the demands and risks inherent
each business activity and have as primary objective they can install routines
maintained over time (see section "Sports" in a country that cares for your
people).
Job security
A plan to improve job security and reduced absenteeism will be developed that

include inter alia:
• Adoption of a new law on health and safety at work, that Nest
the General Inspectorate of Labour in his capacity as police and labor suits
new challenges and complexities. The law must protect especially the
rights of independent workers or self-employed, and all those
voiceless not have union representation.
• Design and implementation of prevention campaigns in the workplace.
• Investment incentives for improving the working environment and / or reducing
accidents, by reducing insurance premiums.
• Incentives for systems incorporating SST (System Management and Security
Health at Work).
• Reduced sickness absenteeism, improving prevention of new
risks associated with occupational diseases and controls on processes
Certification and health care.
Vocational training and retraining
new policies for training of workers will be promoted with the double
purpose of generating opportunities for personal development and improving productivity
the companies. In this regard it is proposed:
• To promote agreements of employers and workers to promote the development of
the qualifications for increased productivity, the introduction of new
technology, process and product innovation, quality management and
prevention of workplace accidents.
• Plan for improving the structure and management of INEFOP, to effectively fulfill
with a mandate to train and educate workers, especially the most
vulnerable and who have greater difficulty in entering the system
education and the labor market.
• Expand existing legislation (Law 18.083, Decree 150/07), which allows deducting
courses cost only in certain cases and in a very limited way.
• Promote better organization of training activities in
including avoidance of overlap between INEFOP, UTU, and other centers
in the same activity.
• Creation, within INEFOP, training plans specifically targeted
to young people.
• Rethinking Youth Employment Act, for the purpose of making it a
generating opportunities authentic standard.
• Include targeted design the training programs to respond to the
present and future demand of demands for qualifications related to science,
biotechnology and high technology.
• Develop policies and programs of education and training to facilitate the transition
of workers to better jobs and productivity.
• To incorporate entrepreneurship as an optional component programs
vocational training.
Promotion of cooperatives
The strong presence of cooperatives is a feature of Uruguay. The State has not
It has been indifferent to its development. With the support of all parties approved the general law

of cooperatives (Law 18,407), which ended a fragmented and dispersed legislation.
For the next period we propose:
• To promote greater public understanding of the cooperative system.
• To promote alliances among cooperatives, in order to make better use
their complementarities.
• Encouraging innovation, technological incorporation and formation of human capital.
• Develop training programs in cooperative management.
Teleworking
In response to the impact of new technologies in the workplace will prepare a
regulatory framework for teleworking to provide legal certainty to all parties. Several
countries have made progress in this way and can learn from their experiences (see
section "Telecommunications" in a truly productive country).

POWER
Energy is a critical element for productive development and quality of life
citizens. Availability at reasonable costs is a key strategic factor
which determines the level of development of any society. It also impacts on the
sustainability of this development, the impact directly on the environment.

The first world energy crises highlighted the heavy dependence
all economies on fossil fuel (oil and its derivatives).
As a finite resource, whose price has always tended to increase oil went
increasingly to be seen as part of the problem and not the solution. Given this
Indeed, many countries have developed different lines of action: saving policies,
energy efficiency, industrial restructuring, development of renewable energies
Conventional (ERC, like hydropower) and unconventional (URE such as wind,
solar and biomass). But the abundance of fossil fuels and high costs
unconventional renewable energy for many years delayed development
these alternatives.
This picture changed sharply in recent years. Entry into the world economy
China and India, with high energy demands, drove up prices and returned
other attractive options. A growing awareness that the problems adds
environmental, global warming in particular. All this gave new impetus to the
non-conventional renewable energies. NCREs are increasing their participation in
the global primary energy mix at the rate of 7% YTD.
Our country was not immune to this process. In 2010, he was signed by all
the parliamentary parties "Energy Multiparty Agreement" which
He had the National Party as an especially active player. The agreement includes
interconnection with Brazil, the incorporation of non-conventional renewable energy
provided by private, development of biofuels, large-scale integration
natural gas and thermal support implementation with combined cycle plants. By
the demand side include the promotion of energy efficiency, and self-generation

font substitution (instead of solar thermal electricity and biofuels instead
gasoline and diesel).
This is the only multiparty agreement that the government has met and has been factor
fundamental progress in the field. The National Party is committed to
further develop their lines as part of a long-term energy policy.
The shortcomings of current policies
Current policies are correct major features. His weaknesses have to do
with the forms of implementation of some agreed initiatives and the delay in the
developing other. Also, as time passes, there are new problems
or risks to face.
The issue of the rhythms of implementation is important. Ongoing works permit
overcome the risk of electricity shortages in a dry year, though can pose
risks-only when they are operational. But, in the combined cycle as
in contracted wind farms, progress has been slow.
Moreover, some problems are slowing our strategic direction
answer's capacity. Reliable studies have been estimated at more than 13,000 million
dollars needed investment in the electricity system by 2030. That's a lot of money.
UTE should focus on the network (which involves investments of 6.000 million deal)
and the combined cycle plant, leaving private generation projects
medium size. Try to introduce UTE in generating resources involves immobilizing
own when other. All bidding processes undertaken were successful.
Another problem is the lack of transparency caused by the proliferation of societies
Anonymous ownership of state enterprises (mainly ANCAP). A constellation
firms that operate under private law (and consequently do not have the
control obligations of public companies), but also have an owner
Private interested in efficiency, it tends to gather the worst of both worlds. It comes
abusing this mechanism, which should be modified to add transparency without
lose agility.
Finally, Uruguay is still a major problem in the price
fuels, with the consequent negative effect on competitiveness. Subsidies
crusaders and high tax burdens make our transport and industrial
have more expensive fuel in the region. ANCAP must prepare to compete in
equal footing with imported fuel, which is achieved in some cases
and not in others.
Our vision: towards a dynamic sector, open and regulated
• Long-term vision. Energy policy is a long-term sectoral policy,
inserted into an overall policy of sustainable development. Neither performance nor
extent of their effects can be enclosed within the limits of a period
government, so it should be considered a state policy. True to its tradition and
their convictions, the National Party's vision on energy policy fits
the principles listed below.
• Energy Sovereignty. Increase energy sovereignty involves managing
in a sustainable way existing sources and energy resources in our
territory (water, wind, solar, biomass and biogas), reducing external dependence

•

•

•

•

•

•

and production costs. It contributes to this goal diversification of the matrix
energy, mainly with a strong incorporation of non-renewable sources
conventional and income of liquefied natural gas.
Universal access. Electric power is indispensable for the development of all
sectors, and we must move forward to reach 100%
electrification throughout the country. This will require combining
the laying of traditional electricity networks with hybrid systems (combinations
wind power and solar photovoltaic power generators with support from
biofuel oil or gas). At the same time isolated systems will be developed
generation and distribution that meet local demands (eg use of
solar energy for hot water).
Clear rules. It should strengthen the institutional framework of the sector, separating the
role of the regulator (URSEA), markets and managers (such as ADME)
operators (ANCAP, UTE, ALUR, private generators) and the government itself.
Operators must provide service under conditions of transparency, efficiency
and quality. The regulator should apply the same rules to all operators. To the
government corresponds directing public investment towards sectors that the market
cover and promote the development of infrastructure for common use.
Fair rates. It is necessary to move towards a tariff system arising from the
reconciliation of the costs of production of the suppliers (basically
UTE and ANCAP), the need for collection of the State (which benefits from the
contributions of these companies to general revenues) and consumer rights such
as they may be reflected in the quality standards required by the regulator
(Here URSEA).
Public-private joint. If we want to overcome the current energy challenge, the country
You must make major investments in relatively short periods. The priority
It is the strengthening of infrastructure in power transmission and in
network transmission of natural gas. For that we must resort to a variety of
sources of investment and financing, which are both reliable, flexible and time
advantageous. UTE and ANCAP are able to make important contributions, but
not enough to move fast enough.
Cost competitiveness. Fuel prices should be aligned with those of
the region and the world. The production country is not viable if transporting, moving, heat or
cool so expensive. Overcome this problem requires, first, transparent
actual costs, in order to facilitate comparison. Then you need to reduce
cross-subsidies, which distort business activity and do not allow
properly allocate resources. Finally, efforts must be made to
lower the tax burden for a general improvement of the necessary
State efficiency levels.
Installed capacity. The size of the investments made and to make demands as
counterparty full utilization of installed capacity. This is a
especially important in the case of natural gas challenge. With the addition
of the regasification plant road will strongly develop the gas supply.
But the most important demand is the thermal generation of electricity, which
for years will not reach on average 15% of the regasification capacity. They
Thus we need to increase the consumption of gas, both in transport as
industry. For that we must encourage the conversion of fleets of taxis and

buses and industrial plants today work with wood, fuel oil, or
propane.
•	Energy efficiency. Also on the demand side, it is necessary to promote habits
responsible consumption and encourage the incorporation of efficient technologies,
to avoid energy waste that has negative impacts on costs,
investment and the environment. Awareness actions should address both
businesses and households. Formal and non-formal education have roles
important to play in this field.
• Consumer protection. One of the main tasks of the government in this
sector is to ensure that consumers access to good services at reasonable costs.
This requires ensuring competitive conditions, using instruments such as
imports of refined fuels. We must also establish mechanisms
to channel complaints and report possible abuses.
Some measures to develop from the government:
Institutional strengthening and transparency
The existence of clear rules and a proper division of roles is essential for
strengthening the energy sector. To move in this direction we propose:
• Remove ambiguities in the role of UTE and ANCAP,
leaving energy policy held by the National Energy Authority.
• Relocate the URSEA in the organizational chart, eliminating their dependence on
Ministry of Industry, Energy and Mining to ensure their independence. Unit
should play a technical role and should be provided with a business address
elected for terms that do not coincide with periods of government.
• Reform of state corporations, with the aim of listed
traded a portion of its share capital. This change will not only allow capture
investment but also ensure greater transparency and appropriate accountability
accountability to society (and not only in the respective directories, like today
It occurs).
• Create a regulatory framework for the sector, liquid and gaseous fuels that
ensure transparency and competitive prices.
• Implement accounting separation of public companies as a form of
transparent activity.
• Reorient to ALUR from their "sucroalcoholeros" beginning to "agro-energy" future.
Avoid implicit subsidy in the price, offset by a reduction in the burden
taxation of biofuels. Stock exchange to encourage greater
discipline and efficiency in their operations.
Diversification of energy sources
Our country has begun to diversify its energy matrix, to allow entry of gas
LNG regasification through scale and incorporating sources NCREs
like wind generation (although the latter requires the support of thermal generation
wind variability). To realize greater progress in this direction it is proposed:
• Encourage entrepreneurship biomass energy, photovoltaic and
micro-hydro, while the wind continues to plan.

• Remove the limitation MWh price "spot" which is unjustifiably topdressing,
to stimulate local private generation. NCREs not part of the
energy supply at the time that action was taken.
• Leverage hydraulic capabilities, extending the full potential of
generation on the Black River and other waterways advantage having
potential.
• Build pumping stations for the regulation of the generation before the advance of
variable sources (wind and photovoltaic).
• Encourage energy interconnections with countries in the region, based on
a bilateral exchange at competitive prices.
• Coordinate the deadlines for the entry of new generators awarded with
works to strengthen the electricity transmission system, for proper
system performance.
• To specify the construction of new transmission lines that allow the closure of
Ring 500kV network, as a way of moving towards a transmission system
more robust and reliable.
• Create a Monitoring Committee Biofuels, responsible for evaluating and
propose new mechanisms to encourage their development in the country.
Promotion of self-generation
In accordance with international best practices should be encouraged that those
they can generate their own power in a convenient way for the country effectively the
so. A well-known example is the thermal solar panels that complement the
electric water heater, home strongly down the bill. The country has taken the first
steps in this direction with the launch of Solar Plan, but much remains to be
do. Numerous productive enterprises of small and medium size are in
able to generate the energy they need. To move decisively in this
path is proposed:
• Expand and diversify the sources of funding for the installation of panels
Solar (which now has the sole financier to BHU), incorporating the BROU, the
private banking and the joint venture itself.
• Offering preferential rates to finance energy projects
self-generation or energy efficiency, both for households and for
small or medium-sized production units.
• Allow the generation and transmission from an area to another, paying only UTE
the transmission rates depend on the voltages (today, all generator
Private is forced to consume or sell the property UTE).
• Promote self-generation in rural settlements, promoting the incorporation
irrigation pumps are supplied with NCRE sources, or small
generators.
Diversification of sources of investment financing
Other measures are proposed:
• Focusing action UTE distribution, transmission and management of large
power plants, leaving it to private agents plant development
biomass, or of new wind or solar farms.
• Use the stock market to finance infrastructure for

transmission of electricity and natural gas.
Energy efficiency: management of supply and demand
Improving energy efficiency, acting both on the supply and the demand,
It is one of the great themes of today's world. The multiparty agreement included this
point, but so far there has been little progress. Other measures are proposed:
• Install smart grids (smart grids). These networks use technology
Information to better match supply to demand fluctuations
(Even more valuable in the context of distributed generation), and to manage
demand dynamically according to the situation of the system. From the point of
view of supply, avoiding overloads in networks and improves reliability
service. From the demand side, customers spend to make decisions about
their own consumption, allowing more efficient use without loss of control. Is
proposal must be accompanied by a dynamic rate that allows the user to choose
at what time you connect your equipment.
• Use interconnections with Argentina and Brazil as an instrument of management
supply, offsetting any moments of failure at competitive costs.
• Promote the efficient consumption through the widespread labeling
home appliances.
• To encourage the replacement of old equipment with more efficient equipment (Class
A) through credit lines or tax benefits.
• Management fees in order to impact on consumer habits.
• Educational activities, to coordinate with the formal and non-formal, aimed at
impact on the behavior of households, businesses and officials
Been. The concepts of energy efficiency and energy savings should be passed
since the beginning of school life for joining as lifestyle.
Efficient urban and interurban transport
A significant part of the fuel consumed in Uruguay is used in
conventional means of transport (cars, buses and trucks that use fuel
fossils). For this reason, the way they organize transport will impact very
significant energy consumption. It aims to encourage diversification of the
matrix through actions such as:

• Encourage the use of hybrid and electric cars. These cars are already a reality
which reduces fuel consumption, but not replace it. His appearance
It suggests that the transition to more environmentally friendly vehicles are
It will by way of the electric car. Our country should encourage this development,
deepening some measures already implemented as reducing IMESI. The object
It is that hybrid cars are no longer a "luxury show" and become a
actually extended. Urban utilities are the segment to prioritize (as it is today
by UTE). This mode of transport will be supplied with the new generation
wind to enter the electrical system in the coming years (approximately
1,600 MW by 2016 and 2,600 in 2023).
• In the case of urban public transport, it is proposed to combine the use of vehicles
hybrid, electric or gas with the implementation of a BRT system (Bus Rapid
Transit), which circulates to the bus in a unique two-way path
while other vehicles circulating outside. When this model is applied

appropriately, it generates a low of arrival times and consumption
more fuel efficient. The failure of the "Garzón Corridor" was not due to model
but elected to serious specific design and management.
• Promote the river and rail transport for the movement of loads.
Regardless of other purely economic reasons, these forms of
transportation are more energy efficient and more environmentally friendly
ambient. Concrete proposals in the "Transport and logistics" section presents
a genuinely productive country.
Revision of the tax burden on fuels
The Uruguayan economy will drag competitiveness problems if it fails
reduce fuel costs. And one of the ways to achieve weight reduction
of the tax burden. That the gradual implementation of the following is proposed
measures:
• Increase the stops to deduct VAT for the purchase of oil production
up to 100%, by sector (see the "economic policy" in a country
truly productive).
• Low IMEBA rate of up to 20% for small and medium producers
affected by this tax (see the "economic policy" in a country
truly productive).
• Elimination of up to 100% of VAT on diesel consumed by the farm. This sector
consumes approximately 1.5% of diesel sold (see section
"Economic policy" in a truly productive country).
• Allow liquidate quarterly tax credits for VAT on diesel
and allowing its use in 50% of its value, to pay for the purchase of
fuel. These certificates will be valid for 12 months and will not be endorsable
(See the "economic policy" in a truly country productive section).
• Establish an annual import quota of oil, according to prices
import parity prices to average annually.
• Within the limits set by revenue, reduce IMESI to gasoline. We propose
that, in determining the weight of this tax, not only take into account the CPI
but the evolution of the revenue from that concept. To the extent that revenue
the excises on gasoline increases, the increase will be partially used to
reduce taxation (leading to a decrease in the price) and partly for
finance a stabilization fund aimed to prevent abrupt changes in
prices have destabilizing effects on prices or on coffers
Been.
• Within the limits set fiscal policy, creating a fund to subsidize some
fuels (such as canisters and kerosene) before any usage restrictions
electricity in homes during winter (May to August).
• Within the limits set by government revenues, decrease the rate of VAT
fuels to lower the final price.

TELECOMMUNICATIONS
The world is the revolution in Information Technology and Communications
(ICTs). Human activities increasingly dependent on networks, computers,
electronic devices and services "web".
Our country has been well positioned in the subject long ago. Uruguay was
a day in the introduction of cellular telephony (occurred in 1991) and was one of the countries
pioneers in the introduction and universal digital telephony (100% of the network was
scanned in 1997). He also had an early expansion of Internet access.
The figures for broadband penetration today puts us in a leadership position
in Latin America. We also have a service industry and software capacity
exporter and regional leadership. In recent years, the Ceibal Plan was an attempt
valuable, although perfectible, digital inclusion.
With the fiber optic project home (FTTH) and expanding links
international, Uruguay today offers good levels of connectivity. In parallel,
communications networks are gaining ground and spread new applications
They use the Internet. Finance, services, education, entertainment and the media
communication are increasingly "internetized", which changes the nature of
many businesses. The migration of advertising to the portals and "aggregators" (as
Facebook and Google) poses new challenges to traditional media. The appearance of
"Video on demand" and "multi" begin to change television.
This rapid evolution is generating debates. One of the most important revolves around
the "net neutrality". Since Internet was born, one of its basic principles is that
who carries the information should be treated equally transported all, without discrimination
or prioritize any content (the usual comparison is with a road which should allow
all traffic). But there are several telecom operators and
Internet providers who want to enter the content business. This idea
to make "vertical business" (combining the ability to transport by selling
transported content) is very attractive in commercial terms, but creates the danger
that oligopolies are installed.
Technologically, the most important change in recent years was the emergence of the
3G networks, that allow the connection of the mobile Internet and led to the smart
phones, or smartphones. The explosion of mobile connectivity was accompanied
by an evolution of the technologies that is reflected today in the emergence of 4G or LTE,
allowing high bandwidth in cellular networks.
The new paradigm carried connectivity is no longer based on a fixed place but
accompanying the movement of the user. Data and information are no longer
located on a PC located at home or in the office, but in a "cloud" that is
access from anywhere. And the PC was the central device in the first stage,
cell and "applications" are the basis of the second.
This trend is being complemented by the emergence of all kinds of devices

connected to the Internet, from alarm sensors and security cameras to controls
air conditioning and biomedical sensors. The "smart homes" and treatment
Remote patients are coming out of science fiction. In this new phase, the "Internet
people "beginning to join the" Internet of things ". This will require a strong
infrastructure development agenda, along with the emergence of new applications.
Uruguay is beginning to walk that path, albeit timidly.
The proliferation of information networks brings to the table two major problems:
the security and privacy. Analysis tools that are emerging
allow "browsing" through millions of bytes and find regularities and patterns. Today is
identify possible financial fraud online and find anomalies in consumption
power. In the future it will be possible to detect epidemics, recommend feeding schemes
and discover patterns that guide consumer marketing campaigns or development
of products. All this requires a great development of security to prevent fraud,
theft and other forms of cybercrime. It also raises the problem of how to protect
privacy. The available information about people on the Internet will become increasingly
comprehensive, covering all their social and working lives, its financial statements and its history
clinic. The identity of the person is in the networks, and that opens the possibility to exercise
undue power over their lives. Protect privacy is to protect freedom.
The current difficulties
The main difficulties and shortcomings facing the country today in the area of
telecommunications are:
• The policies promoted by the governments of the Frente Amplio have been effective
develop infrastructure, but they have not built a modern institutions.
The entire industry relies heavily on a single actor (ANTEL) and the characteristics
its leadership in each period. The regulatory unit that should guide and monitor
sector development (URSEC) was subjected to a weakening process
Institutional that began under President Tabare Vazquez and consolidated in
the actual.
• In recent years decisions have been made very important investment
development of the network fiber infrastructure as the main Internet access
data transmission. There remains the challenge of developing rapidly and wide
coverage and capacity, they still need some development. Technology
fourth generation will be an ideal complement fiber network and must be replaced
3G or third generation, showing accelerated saturation levels.
• The significant investment in fiber optic network must be made profitable
allowing participation of new players in their use. This will
maintain the level of investment necessary for maintenance and development,
According to the levels that require the development of information society.
• An additional weakness over the coming years will weigh is the shortage of
qualified human resources. The telecommunications industry depends on the level of
knowledge of people working on it. If there is a sufficient amount and
quality human resources, a bottleneck that discourages dynamism is created
sector. In Uruguay, the increase in qualified human resources is being
very slow. They lack strong policies.
• Another weak point in the development of telecommunications in Uruguay is the poor

protection of users. There is a legal monopoly in fixed telephony and
mobile phone competition is very imperfect: only three actors are distributed
a market with increasing levels of turnover. Consumers get
acceptable service, but they do not benefit from the advantages that exist in other
markets where operators must do more to attract customers
(Best plans, lower prices).
• Finally, the country lacks a policy of technological waste. Not resolved
how individuals can get rid of unused equipment and batteries
exhausted. The State, for its part, is a major producer of technological waste and
a major recipient of donations that quickly become obsolete. Some
specific units, as ANEP, are losing useful spaces
storing materials that are always a problem and sometimes (as in the case
monitors) may pose health risks.
Our vision: to and regulated a dynamic, plural industry
• clear rules. It should strengthen the institutional framework of the sector, separating
the role of government (acting mainly through AGESIC and DINATEL) of
regulator (URSEC), public and private operators (ANTEL, Movistar, Claro,
etc.). Political actions (direct public investment into the market sectors
does not cover, promoting the development of infrastructure for common use) are made of
government. The rules must be established and controlled by the regulator,
you must act as fair. Operators provide the service conditions
transparency, quality and efficiency, and return level.
• Public-Private Joint. It is normal for an operator such as ANTEL, property
public and high profitability, play a leading role in investments
technology. In the middle there are other companies interested in investing funds
Fresh, it is important grasp within a framework of transparency and legal certainty.
That way it will be possible to increase the levels of technological investment in the country.
• Net neutrality. The net neutrality is a condition to protect the
exercise of freedom of information and expression. This does not necessarily preclude
Internet operators to enter into the business of content (for example,
selling a video service on its own Internet), but requires rules
ensure that the operator does not give them priority over third-party service.
• Consumer protection. A healthy development of new technologies requires
the consumer will offer good services at reasonable costs. The politics
public must prevent the formation of oligopolies that take hostage
the consumers. The regulator should develop instruments for channeling
any abuse and claims to have the ability to act in the event that
are verified.
• Security and privacy. Individuals and organizations who use the Internet must
to protect their information, even about their own providers. For
that they lack tools and clear, known and auditable procedures. He
State may access information that new technologies are capable
to provide, but only in a framework which provides the necessary guarantees and
judicial intervention. The role of independent auditors is essential to avoid
abuse of power by state officials or private.
•	Human Resources. We must make every effort to encourage the formation

qualified human resources as a way to put the country in better condition
to attract investment and incorporate technology and highly complex processes.
Some measures to develop from the government:
Institutional strengthening and transparency
The existence of clear rules and a proper division of roles is essential for
strengthening of the telecommunications sector. To move in this direction we propose:
• Adoption of a new Telecommunications Act to be prepared in dialogue
with all public and private actors, and oriented to promote the protection
users, development of investment, technological innovation and protection
freedoms.
• Relocate the URSEC in the organizational chart, eliminating their dependence on
Ministry of Industry, Energy and Mining as a way to ensure their independence.
The unit should play a purely technical role and should be provided with a
business address elected for terms that do not coincide with periods
government.
• Reform of state corporations, with the aim of listed
traded a portion of its share capital. This change will not only allow capture
investment but also ensure greater transparency and appropriate accountability
accountability to society (and not only in the respective directories).
Measures of protection and empowerment of users
It is a set of measures to align the country with best practices
worldwide for the protection and empowerment of consumers. Between
they propose:
• Number portability of cellular service. If the user changes operator preserves
your number. This allows less traumatic change and encourages the operator
keep improving their service users.
• Enshrining net neutrality by law. Chile and the Netherlands have already done. In
United States is regulated by the FCC, although there are lawsuits in progress.
Uruguay should legislate to protect the choice of user and
content producers.
• Give adequate publicity to the rules on protection of personal data,
so that citizens can use the provisions.
• I Create in orbit AGESIC the figure of "digital ombudsman" responsible for protecting
digital identity of people and their privacy against public bodies and
private.
• Provide a suitable legal framework for police investigations and judicial
They use the information available on networks and systems and Web services. They
always require judicial authorization and auditing mechanisms be created
independent to prevent abuses by officials. It should criminalize
use of private information for purposes not authorized by the user or by the judge
competent.
• Management of technological waste. You need to incorporate management programs
integral technological waste and recycling schemes to ensure treatment
suitable toxic elements. It should also limit the import of hardware

obsolete and put conditions on receiving donations. Importers
electronic equipment and mobile operators must develop programs
Reception of the teams that they stop using their customers. These programs should
be coordinated with environmental authorities, so as to ensure
correct processing of waste. Also needed are campaigns
awareness to encourage new behaviors on the part of users (see
the "Environment" section in a country that cares for its people).
• Technical support to people with disabilities. All websites
State must respect international standards for access of persons
with disabilities. It should encourage and promote automation projects
the participation of people with disabilities in research and
new product development and adaptation of existing ones. We commit
to waive the tariff on the import of automation to people with
disabilities (this initiative is part of the concept of megainclusión
included in the "social policies" of a country of opportunities) section.
• Digital Cities. The concept of digital cities refers not only to the
modernization of services offered by the national government and the department,
but more generally it proposes an intensive use of ICTs as an element
rapprochement and exchange between citizens and public administration
private agents, all supported by converging technologies give
all permanent relationship processes coverage.
Measures to promote technological development
It is proposed in the short term:
• To accelerate the 4G / LTE deployment. The development of the "Internet of people" and the
increase of smartphones is beginning to saturate the 3G network. Access technology
4G has become essential. The way is clear for progress, but investment
a significant amount of resources. It must be utilized in combination
investment capacity of ANTEL and private operated.
• Encouraging the development of content and applications. So users can
maximizing the potential of ICTs, it is important
develop valid systems and applications such as electronic purse for use
cell in economic transactions (applications that exist today
They depend on a bank account in a country with low banking). Health should
used extensively and cell mobility. Also public safety and the
e-government. To encourage these developments is necessary to launch projects
focused on coordination with AGESIC and promote private projects
from the ANII (see "Research, development and innovation" in a country
truly productive).
• Aim at the end of the next term of government position Uruguay from 15
first in the ranking of the Global Report on Information Technology,
as a way to gain visibility and international attractiveness (in the report
2014 Uruguay was ranked 56).
• taking as the Investment Promotion Act, exemptions are approved
the income tax for companies that make investments for incorporation
ICT systematic.
• Progressive elimination of tariffs on technology products (computers,

tablets, mobile phones, components). A consistent development policy
digital should facilitate access of all people to technology, not groups
specific as school or the elderly.
• Allow virtual mobile operators. The value chain of cellular service is
disaggregating in the world, with the appearance of "virtual" operators who lease
the network of another operator, buying minutes in bulk to resell wholesale
lower. This allows the commercial and financial assistance as well as support
customer, remain in the hands of the virtual operator, while the "physical" operator
focusing on operating the network and develop it. This trend favors better service
to the client.
Measures to encourage the training of human resources
It is proposed in the short term:
• Create a system of grants for technical careers related to development
Telecommunications (whether or not university). In granting priority will be given to
low-income students.
• Organize communication campaigns aimed at students of secondary education
top, where we report on the possibilities of professional development
ICT area, the lack of unemployment and wage levels.
• Promote dynamic cooperation between ANEP and university system
develop a program to strengthen teacher training in science and
technology (see "Education" in a country of opportunities).
• Make use of tax incentives to promote "technological sponsorship" between
public or private companies and educational centers ANEP (UTU and Secondary) that
impart technological baccalaureates.
• Stimulate internships and "residentados" style of performing
medical students, to encourage technological upgrading and transit
from the education system to public and private companies.
• Promote, in coordination with the ANII, conducting postgraduate courses in the area
technology, both at home and abroad (see the "Research section,
development and innovation "in a truly productive country).
• Extend the application of Plan Ceibal, but introducing changes to improve
results. Among other things, we must fund more hours paid for
teacher training, strengthen the educational use through new
developments and facilitate cooperation between different remote study centers.
• Promote technological distance education (e-learning) both in the field of
formal education and non-formal. Promote, in coordination with the system
ANII college and the creation of a virtual technology campus, as a way
encourage studies within the country and facilitate interaction with the sector
productive.
• Promote teleworking and e-commerce (see the section about "Relations
Labor "in a truly productive country).

TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS
The current government has been particularly ineffective in the maintenance and development

road and port infrastructure. Large public-private projects never
They materialized. The inability to recover the railroad was illustrated in failure
"Train of free peoples." The maintenance of national highways was insufficient. The
rural roads, increasingly demanded by the development of agriculture has deteriorated
seriously. The activity of our ports affected by the aggressiveness of our
neighbors and the lack of strategic clarity in our own Foreign Ministry.
If we move towards a genuinely productive country, we must make a
effort to reverse this situation. Our economic future is mortgaged if move
a load from Salto to Montevideo so expensive as to take from Montevideo Hong
Kong. Our production will continue to move with difficulty if the road network is not adapted to the
new transport flows. Our ability to increase production volumes
agriculture will flounder if the road system deteriorates the closer to the place of
production.
We must do more and talk less. We have to produce a true "devaluation
logistics ", to return competitiveness to our production. That takes
a lot of initiative and large investments, which will only come in a climate of legal certainty
and clear government commitment.
And ground transportation logistics
Uruguay has a network 8,730 kilometers of national roads and 60,000 kilometers
departmental routes. These figures are acceptable both in relation to the size of
territory and population. We have a problem of quantity but quality. There are
also some 3,000 kilometers of railways. Just over half (1,700 kilometers)
They can be used within certain safety limits. The rest suffer a state of
serious deterioration or abandonment. As a result, 95 percent of cargo flows
and people by road.
The current difficulties
The main difficulties and weaknesses to overcome are:
• Recent years have been a period of increased road traffic and crash
maintenance. Consequently, the overall routes deteriorated. Barely
a quarter of the total distance is in very good condition.
Identical percentage is in fair condition and 30 percent are in poor condition.
• There are at least 50 points on the road network (basically bridges and causeways very
impaired) affecting the safety and fluidity of road traffic. These points
forcing delays and detours, thus increasing costs. Only
Cargo transportation loses about $ 225 million a year in costs generated
by the deterioration of the road network.
• Our road traffic is traditionally adjusted to "radial" or "scheme
range ", characterized by the convergence of all routes to Montevideo.
But new forms of production and output of goods are generating
a new flow "cross" that bypasses the capital. This phenomenon, positive
itself has recharged routes as 14, 26 and the 31, among others that have not been
reinforced or maintained properly. Public works have not adapted to
changes in activity.
• The traditional division between domestic routes by the Ministry of Transport
and Public Works, and local routes by regional governments is

•

•

•

•

•

•

resulting inefficient. Besides generating coordination problems posed
the risk of politicizing the decisions because it gives the opportunity to prioritize the
"Friendly municipalities".
The high price of fuel increases transport costs within
country. On average, fuel affects between 40 and 50 percent of the total cost
freight (in 1990 it was less than 15%). This attentive factor against
competitiveness of our economy and discourages regional transit.
Our country regulates road transport business very rules of law
general and outdated (basically, the Commercial Code and some regulations
complementary). This again raises issues that impact on the costs,
while it is hindering the development of multimodal transport.
A complementary problem is the complexity of the control processes. While
It has made some potentially valuable attempt, as the introduction of the Guide
Computerized cargo, rules enforcement procedures remain a
obstacle to efficiency.
As for rail, the situation is bleak. Not only does almost
half of the tracks are unused. Furthermore, those used are
disrepair, forcing to reduce the amount of tons per axle and circular
very low speeds (15 to 25 km / h average). Derailments
were caused by bad road conditions are relatively frequent. Only low
velocity prevents any tragedies.
The rail park is in poor condition. Over 20 years ago not
buy locomotives. The availability of freight cars is reduced,
which helps to explain the low number of transported tons (less than
one million per year).
AFE is in a situation of extreme institutional weakness, technical and
economic. Under these conditions, it is impossible to undertake alone any
improvement and renewal plan.

Our vision: road infrastructure up to the opportunities
The roads have always been an agent of social and economic change.
The decision to foster more efficient routes and traffic and transportation is part of a
country vision. In this context affirm:
• The development of a truly productive country requires an ambitious effort and
urgent improvement of our road infrastructure, which places it in a position
to support more and more traffic volume, ensuring integrity of the loads.
• not enough to improve what's there. We also have to restructure the existing network,
adapting to the new production and mobilization geography. The new logistics
You need other infrastructure, capable of supporting new forms of cargo and
stimulate traffic from other origins and destinations.
• In the medium term, strengthening our terrestrial infrastructure requires
recovery trains. Amid increasing agribusiness and forestry production,
rail offers lower costs, lower accident rates and reduced
carbon footprint. It also decreases the rate of deterioration of roads.
• The management of road infrastructure should not only be guided by objectives
efficiency but also for equity objective: to improve accessibility to all
populated areas. The "road connectivity" is an essential component of equity

territorial.
• It is estimated that the incremental investment needed to meet the challenges of the next
five years, amounting to $ 370 million. This represents more than 70
million per year to be added to the demand for replacement and maintenance.
Addressing the maintenance backlog accumulated in the last 10 years will require 260
million additional investment. In short, the shock of the road infrastructure
country needs require about $ 700 million per year. This investment, which only
serves some of the infrastructure needs, it can hardly be
using current revenue. Not only you need to work in
technician to redesign a new road infrastructure, but also financially
to capture the necessary resources on favorable terms.
• The money is needed but is not everything. Good management of road infrastructure
It requires knowledge of traffic and transport demand, knowledge
roads, setting priorities and types of works to be executed in strict attention to
demand requirements, appropriate cost estimates delas works
resource management and maintain high professional standards and support
modern technological tools. The management excellence required
process management, resource management, integrated quality control of the works
and intensive use of technological resources.
Some measures to develop from the government:
Measures of capacity building for planning and management
It is proposed in the short term:
• To approve the 2015-2020 Strategic Plan for Road Infrastructure, which integrates
National budget and whose implementation is the responsibility of the Ministry of
Transport and Public Works. Additionally a Master Plan should be drawn
to 20 years, based on a broad political and social consensus. That plan should define
the direction and tenor of the infrastructure over several periods
government.
• The immediate objective of the Strategic Plan 2015-2020 will ensure a quick
recovery routes, with special emphasis on the "bottlenecks" that are
hindering the transport of goods and people.
• Among the "bottlenecks", bridges are an aspect especially
worrying. It is urgent interventions to adapt many of the bridges
existing load current requirements, whether or building new bridges
Current recycling. Both in terms of peacekeeping and security,
They are the most critical point bridges departmental jurisdiction.
• The work must be framed in an effort to reformulate the road network, which
set primary and secondary corridors for the movement of loads
highway. The primary dealers must function as axes approach
side, and as they start and finish lines of the main destinations and
origins. They give special priority to the "cross" routes, which have gained
hitherto little importance recognized by the state.
• The Strategic Plan also include the concept of "domestic cargo terminal" nodes
Transfer where all tasks related to the mobilization will be conducted
charges, including the procedures for nationalization of goods in operations
international.

Measures to improve safety standards
The Strategic Plan also will aim a general improvement in standards
security, which includes not only improve the status and condition of pavements but
also measures such as:
• Adaptation of the layout geometries to current traffic requirements.
• Modernization of road signs in a manner consistent with the reality of traffic on
peri-urban and rural areas.
• Third path exchangers or vehicular overpasses, roads service.
• Cleaning side strips.
• Conditioning access to the bridges.
• Review and clarification of responsibilities of all state agencies
linked to the administration of the road system (see the "Road Safety" on A
country that cares for its people).
Measures to adapt the regulatory framework
A change of existing rules can have dynamic effects for the sector. In
particular it proposes:
• Modify the general method of regulation used so far, incorporating
specific rules. The aim is to pass a transportation bill, a law on contracts
transport and multimodal transport law.
• A special chapter is to create a safe transport, besides covering
traditional road transport risks, covering physical loss or damage
of the cargo handled risks arising from protected during operation.
• Policy changes should also aim at eliminating asymmetries
institutional, tax, labor and operations that currently exist at the regional level.
• In terms of enforcement, it is necessary to modernize the mechanisms
control by simplifying processes and incorporating technology.
• institutional reform is necessary. The structure of the Ministry of Transport
prevents a holistic view and promotes overlapping functions: there are five
national addresses that are linked to transport duties, with no
the essential functional verticality. The National Transportation duty
be restructured and strengthened.
Measures to improve competitiveness
Improvements in competitiveness can be achieved in three ways: reducing
fuel costs, reduce insurance costs and improve road infrastructure.
• To reduce the cost of fuel stops deduction will be increased
VAT on diesel used for transport, for a fiscal cost of up to $ 5 million
per year. Carriers will also benefit from the possibility of liquidating
quarterly tax credits for VAT on diesel, allowing
use for fuel purchase within 12 months (see section
"Economic Policy" in a truly productive country).
• Approval of an insurance law will save the double coverage where
some companies incur.
• To the extent that the road infrastructure improves, they will fall the costs generated by
breakages, delays and detours. To advance in this way the FFIV is proposed.

National Trust for Road Infrastructure (FFIV)
This fund, to be created by law, will manage resources that are provided
the transport sector (primarily through fuel tax) and
currently they dumped into general revenues. Its main tasks will be:
• Assist the State and regional governments in the development and maintenance of
road infrastructure, including national highways, departmental roads and highways
neighborhood.
• Develop strategies to facilitate compliance with this mandate. For instance,
organize massive purchases of road equipment (grouping several purchases
departmental governments to get better prices), provide programs
financing mirror (per weight puts a departmental government,
FFIV provides another) and to facilitate private participation as using the own FFIV
guarantee repayment of the works.
• To promote regional trade, promoting the integration of our
road network with the exits of the territory. Two priority tasks are improving
access to national ports (Salto, Paysandu, Fray Bentos, Nueva Palmira,
Cologne, Juan Lacaze and Montevideo) and coordination with the bi-oceanic corridor
projected from Coquimbo (Chile) and Porto Alegre (Brazil).
• Encourage the intensive use of local labor in infrastructure.
Strengthening public transport by road
The lack of systematization of rules and administrative decisions prevents dispersion
road transport that people have the dynamism that the country needs. For
improve the situation we propose:
• Establish a legal and operational framework to encourage the coordination and
complementation of different services, while respecting the specificity and scope
each operation.
• Advance the professionalization of the activity, through training resource
human and consolidation of specialized business units.
• Strengthen legal certainty, now eroded to the point that the services are
They are paying no concession contracts.
• In relation to the coordination and complementarity of urban and suburban services,
institutional and ensure equal treatment for all operating companies
providing services in the metropolitan area.
Strengthening freight
• Develop a National Fleet Renovation Plan which, among other things, define
clearly the destination of the vehicles disaffected.
• To improve and professionalize the inspective and control systems.
• Increase the presence and professionalism in the areas of negotiation and regulation
international freight transport by road.
Plan of development of rail transport
Recent attempts to modify the model railway have been unsuccessful. Low
speed deterioration of infrastructure and shortage of rolling stock to meet
harvest peaks are the main reasons that the railroad is not an option
Attractive and loses market share. Unmet demand has been covered by the

road transport, which generates higher fees, an exponential increase of deteriorating
routes and environmental problems.

Full recovery of the train service has costs that are measured in billions
dollars. This requires careful process and require gradual recovery:
• a new railway law, adapted to the conditions of the country and the region;
• a new management model and railway operation, identifying demand
unsatisfied will seize opportunities to lower transportation costs;
• n investment plan covering infrastructure (roads and bridges), the material
rolling stock and construction of cargo terminals and multimodal logistics centers.
Overall, the plan proposes:
• Concentrate recovery efforts in some branches that have good
cargo volume and ensure profitability (eg lines Rivera, Coastline Salto,
Algorta-Fray Bentos and Mines).
• Articulate those branches with logistics centers that facilitate intermodal marítimoferroviario-highway.
• Analyze options ten passengers in addition to the load tresnes
and as an alternative to urban and suburban mobility in the metropolitan area.
• Betting on training, education and motivation of staff as key factors
to meet the operational challenges of a modern railway company.
• Develop a railway policy Mercosur, creating a single railway area
based on an integrated and interoperable network equipment.
• Include as a condition for the eventual installation of extractive industries (
eg mining companies) that transport materials through channels do not
exclusive use (such as slurry pipelines) but on railways to be paid
by companies but they will be open for common use.
• Creating conditions for the participation of private investors.
Fluvio-maritime logistics
The national port system includes much more than the port of Montevideo. In the
own capital is also Punta Sayago, Diving and Punta Carretas. In the countryside
There is a long chain of public and private ports. Good management of this set
It is vital for the country to connect with the world, its production and export customers receive
for tourism.
The current difficulties
The main difficulties and shortcomings facing our port system are
following:
• There is an institutional disorder that prevents good management of the whole. The
National Ports Administration (ANP) and the National Directorate of Hydrography
(Dependent MTOP) jurisdictions are distributed unclear criteria. The
ANP is in charge of the port of Montevideo (including Punta Sayago), the port
Shopping Cologne, Juan Lacaze, the official spring Nueva Palmira, Fray Bentos,
Paysandu, Salto and a dock at La Paloma. The National Hydrography
manages the marinas of La Paloma, Punta del Este, Piriápolis, Stream,
the old port of Colonia, Carmelo, Higueritas, Villa Soriano and in Montevideo, Diving

•

•

•

•

•

and Punta Carretas. In trade manages La Paloma, commercial dock
Diving, Punta Carretas and Carmelo. It is also responsible for managing Punta Cruises
Eastern and manages all ports concession: M'Bopicuá, UPM, Montes del
Silver vessels and Ontur Corporation. In addition, the silos within
port of Nueva Palmira and Fray Bentos are the property of MGAP, which deals
manage them.
Since the adoption of the Ports Act in 1992, there has been a port policy
that generate qualitative changes. Rather the inertia of world trade continued
and adjusting the operation was the appearance of new volumes and new
loads (such as forest). But infrastructure development has lagged behind
the needs of the productive apparatus. Today Panamax ships have capacity
to 60,000 tons, but in Montevideo and Nueva Palmira can only load
40,000 because no background. The remaining 20,000 tons are usually loaded in
Bahia Blanca, Argentina with production. This limitation complicates operations
Export and makes us dependent on combined business with third parties.
The absence of a comprehensive policy also makes some points are
congested while others have idle capacity. For example, the Port of Fray
Bentos has almost no activity, although it could function as an alternative port
to Palmyra for loading grain. In 2013, the costs of waiting
ships loaded grain in Montevideo and New Palmira were around 30
millions of dollars. If Fray Bentos was dredged at the same level and Nueva Palmira
He is endowed of equipment, these could expect significantly lower, with the
thus increasing economic attractiveness (and recovery).
In recent years, poor quality of management has generated costs and delays.
Two examples illustrate the situation. In 2010 the decision was taken to enable
a mooring north of Nueva Palmira, which would operate trains
barges without relying on Argentine ports. The decision has not yet been executed.
In 2013 the renovation of the transatlantic dock Nueva Palmira was completed. He
Boat type for transportation of grains by the Uruguay and Parana rivers is the Panamax
225 meters long, but the spring is miscalculated and not allowed to operate two of those
ships simultaneously.
At the operational problems the deterioration of our negotiating capacity adds.
Frente Amplio governments have privileged political officials on
technical, with negative results for the country's interests. Again two examples.
During the government of Tabare Vazquez two new terminals proposed in the
Nueva Palmira area. Argentina opposed both projects, invoking a
question of dubious limits. When the binational commission met on
Vazquez government forgot that he had a Boundary Commission and did not appeal
to her. The weakness of the Uruguayan delegation to Argentina Primara the thesis.
Something similar happened in March 2011 when both governments agreed works
dredging. Uruguay had an excellent negotiating position, because the port
Concepcion del Uruguay Argentina was dry. In exchange for not object to the
Conception dredging, dredging Fray Bentos was achieved. But the delegation
Uruguay agreed to do so only to 25 feet, making it anti-competitive. The bad
Argentine interests favored negotiation.
The deterioration of the bargaining power is part of a wider problem, which
is the lack of strategic clarity with which recent governments have acted.

Too often it neglects the important and energies are devoted to
so inconsequential. A particularly troubling case is the Argentine project
to modify the access channel to the port of Buenos Aires. This action will affect the
operation of the port of Montevideo. In particular, the connection with Buenos Aires,
today is the Canal Punta del Indio, about 150 kilometers will move away with
thus increasing costs and complexity of the operation. The problem
You can be solved, but we need the Uruguayan government to take initiatives
He is not taking. Meanwhile, he has devoted time and energy to water port
deep, which would require an annual turnover of 60 million tonnes to be
profitable, when only 18 million would be insured if he is allowed
and the Aratirí concrete project.
• There has been an abandonment of the strategic business research tool
essential to prevent or mitigate any adverse events. For example,
Panama Canal expansion will allow the transit of vessels larger than
those who go so far. It is the world's largest construction and modify the axis
economic development of the entire east coast of America. Some countries, like Brazil, are
preparing to adapt to the risks and opportunities that change brings. He
Uruguayan government has not discussed the issue. Nor is the impact of new studies
port of La Plata, which will become operational this year with a spring 750
meters long.
Our vision: a policy of ports serving the national interests
• Ports are an essential component of our production system, we
connects with the global supply chain. We need a policy that looks at
set all terminals and meshes well with our trade policy.
• We need to define a strategy with broad political support that is oriented
defend national interests. This strategy should identify objectives
priority and allocate resources based on that categorization.
• We need to professionalize the management of our port system to return
commercially more attractive and less dependent on decisions
our neighbors.
• We need an institutional redesign to facilitate coordination between authorities
responsible for the administration of ports and the Foreign Ministry. The present and future
our ports play in areas such as the Committee of the River Plate (CARP) and
the Commission of the River Uruguay (CARU).
Some measures to develop from the government:
Institutional Reforms
It is proposed in the short term:
• Standardize the commercial port management, creating an area as a first step
permanent coordination between the ANP, Hydrography, the MGAP and Chancellery. In
this area should define a common strategy, goals to be achieved in terms
peremptory and a common set of indicators and quality of management (see
section "Foreign Trade" in a truly productive country).
• Standardize the management of state dredging. Today that task is divided between the PNA and
Hydrography, but only the ANP has equipment. The division is due to reasons

history that are no longer current.
• Give institutional priority to negotiations with Argentina, creating a group of
Permanent work is composed of representatives of the responsible bodies
port management, CARU, the CARP and Chancellery. This working group should
participate in the analysis of issues such as the Agreement on Maritime Transport and
the Mercosur Customs Code.
Dredging as a national priority
Our entire system of ports depends on the fulfillment of dredging not
They have been properly defended. The strategic priorities in this area are the
following:
• Dredge the access channel to the port of Montevideo to 14 meters, and extend its
length of 42-52 kilometers. This is the shortest way to tell Uruguay
a deepwater port. To achieve this it is necessary that Argentina no
not object. The reasons for doing so are limited by the Treaty of Rio de
Plate, but an obstructionist attitude can generate years of delay. Have to
negotiate with intelligence and there is an opportunity to do so, since Argentina
you will need the approval of Uruguay for their own works.
• In the event that, as presumed, Argentina leave the Canal maintenance
Indian, manage their exclusive maintenance by Uruguay, in order to
take advantage of the joint in the area of ​​"knuckle". With that ensure the
routes to Buenos Aires and Nueva Palmira.
• Dredging of Martin Garcia Canal at the same level as the Mitre Canal.
• Dredging of the Uruguay River to the port of Fray Bentos at the same level as the port
Nueva Palmira.
• To finance the dredging it is possible to use four sources:
the resources raised by the application of Law 15,097; Account funds
current created on the occasion of increased rates of ANP in January 2012;
the resources allocated annually to the ANP general revenues and proceeds from
0.005% that exporters pay the BROU. Combining these four sources
You can, for example, pay in less than three years dredging to 14 meters
Montevideo port and deepening the Canal del Indio, without resorting
any additional financing.
State dredging

Uruguay will face in the coming decades a significant demand for dredging. In this
There are currently two dredgers in the hands of the ANP (the newest 1984) and a third in
purchasing process. The world market is oligopolistic private dredging. Calls for
international tenders are complex from a logistical point of view (only be made
if dredgers in the area) and create opportunities for administrative block (as happened
in the case of the Canal Martin Garcia).
It is therefore proposed to create a small, well-equipped state service that operates out
the scope of the PA, so that it can concentrate on fulfilling its role
port authority without being distracted by operational tasks. This service can answer
timely and urgent work at the same time acting as a regulator of prices
tenders. Another possibility is to create a mixed company between the State

and key stakeholders.
Complementary measures to strengthen the capital Port
The port of Montevideo is the country's largest, but not the only one operating in the
department. Besides the dredging to 14 meters and maintain the Canal Indio
propose the following measures:
• Immediately begin studies for construction of Pier D as
Pier C below the port of Montevideo. Lengthening the berth in
220 meters.
• Bid cruise terminal strengthens Montevideo as boarding place
and disembarkation of passengers. The construction of this terminal will have an impact
favorably on the duration of the stay and will mean an increase in spending
tourism.
• Redesign the system of land access to the port of Montevideo, putting special
care in organizing the flow of trucks.
• realize the construction of a national fishing module Capurro. Fishing is
generating jobs and generate income beyond the port itself. Is
possible to think of an associate refrigerator.
• Support the development of Puntas de Sayago as an area of ​​natural growth
Port of Montevideo. Beyond what happens to the regasification should be
intensive use of 100 hectares available.
• Renegotiation with Gas Sayago conditions Channel Dredging
Linkage. The cost of the dredging was basically assumed with ANP, when
what would it pays healthy Gas Sayago and move it to their prices. One result of
current scheme is that, in the case of sales to Argentina occurrence, the State
Uruguayan be subsidizing the natural gas consumed in Buenos Aires.
• Changing the nature of the port of Punta Carretas, changing its status
"Marina" by "small craft harbor" (Article 67 of the
law 16,462). In this way you can take advantage of the port that was used to build
the collector pipe in 1980 as a hub of practical operating today
Diving from the port without having a land area of ​​support. A project
self-financed.
Complementary measures to strengthen the ports on the Rio de la Plata and the
Uruguay
Besides deepening the Canal Martin Garcia and the dredging of the Fray Bentos
Nueva Palmira same level, it is proposed:
• Retake the defense of the undertakings blocked by Argentina in Nueva Palmira
(Barranca de los Loros and liquid bulk), reintroduced in the negotiations
discussion protective easement navigation channel.
• Require minimum productivity in loading speed as a requirement to operate
bulk in Nueva Palmira.
• Provide financial support feasibility studies Project Exclusas San Antonio
(Salto), which would extend 500 kilometers navigating the River Uruguay without
Argentina need authorization.
• Adopt and implement a plan for the development of the port of Paysandu, which
including logistics equipment and a redesign of the access and support areas. The

•
•
•
•
•
•

500,000 tons of grains produced in the region allow a movement
more than 300 annual barge to the loading of ocean vessels. Is
Alternative generate significant relief on road traffic.
Enable the Port of Juan Lacaze as a free port.
Installing a crane generation for loading and unloading in the port of Fray
Bentos, in order to give it the necessary operational capacity for recovery.
Develop the arrival of cruise ships at the Port of Cologne. For that, lengthen and widen the
This spring, and instruct the Uruguayan Embassy in London to process the quick
acceptance of electronic navigational charts.
Getting Argentina allows navigate their stretch of the waterway without requiring
Argentine pilot.
Support and lead efforts in conjunction with the Ministry of Tourism and governments
traffic department to develop river cruise.
Ensure respect for the rules governing cabotage. Movements between
moorings and ports must be reserved for the national flag.

Other measures to boost
• Support will be given to private terminals projecting install and The Charqueada
Tacuarí as a way to promote the consolidation of the waterway East.
• Develop the port of La Paloma in ways that are compatible with the activity
Desk (only fishing boats clean and medium loads, frequencies
not affecting tourism).
• In the period of government the Puerto Seco de Rivera is enabled.
• an amending draft law was presented to Parliament feathering
national vessels in order to improve the attractiveness of national registration.
• shipbuilding and repair will be promoted.
Air Logistics
The logistics area is an area of ​​relative lack of development in the country. That does not mean you have
hostel strategic importance and growth opportunities. The main ideas
to apply in the area are:
• Unify management. There are three bodies with expertise in the subject: the Directorate
National Civil Aviation and Aviation Infrastructure (DINACIA, under the
Air) Force, the Air Transport (dependent MTOP) and the Board
National Aeronautics (chaired by MTOP). The bureaucratic burden is heavy and the
ability to formulate joint policies is weak.
• The country must reformulate the rules that apply to the aircraft, so as to
encourage business and facilitate its development. The current rules have about 40
years.
• While commercial aviation is the most visible face of the sector, an important
level of aviation activity in small size (spraying, air taxis,
flying clubs). You need to work on safety standards and include the subject
environment in dialogue with private actors.
• Carrasco Airport is not the only international airport in that account
the country. There are five others in different parts of the interior: Laguna del Sauce,
Paysandu, Salto, Rivera and Santa Bernardina. Only the former has levels
significant activity. There is a room to use that infrastructure by

the development of tourist charters in a logic equivalent to cruise
river. Exploit this possibility requires coordination with the Ministry of Tourism and
national tourist operators in the region.
• The mishandling of the issue Pluna left the country without a national flag carrier and
generated connectivity problems. These difficulties have been solved with
the arrival of new companies that received some encouragement to be installed. He
future treatment of this issue should be based on two learning. The first is
a national flag carrier is not an end in itself, but an instrument
Strategic among others. The second is that the Uruguayan government has several instruments
at your fingertips (incentive programs, credit lines, etc.), without it being necessary
engage in any public / private corporate figure.

Sectoral Policies: AGRO AND FISHING
The country lived for years a spectacular growth in the agricultural sector. A
important part of that leap is due to the development of agriculture, driven by strong
Rising international prices (linked to growth in Asian demand), by the
arrival of a new business model (which distinguishes between the landowner, who
plant and who markets) and the incorporation of new technologies (especially
from the introduction of direct planting and application of biotechnology). The strong
development of the areas planted with soybeans and wheat is the most visible manifestation of this
process.
But not only agriculture has shown dynamic. Twenty-seven years after the
approval of the law that made possible its development, afforestation has changed the landscape
the country and has become a major export item.
Livestock, meanwhile, is undergoing major changes. The surface
dedicated to this activity has been reduced and the traditional wintering area has shifted,
but this need to adapt to the development of agriculture does not prevent good levels
production of both meat and milk. Still, further adjustments are necessary
technology and new models of synergy between sectors.
The sheep industry has not returned to the levels of economic impact that met in the past,
but it stated in its role diversifying the productive matrix, improving the quality of
wool and adapting to different soil conditions. All this generates significant
economic and social impacts, while allowing good returns.
Looking forward, the prospects for beef cattle and milk encouraging. More
Beyond variations in international prices, there is potential for growth
sustainable based on increased productivity, efficiency and openness of markets.
Changes in the relationship between the price of land and livestock prices announced
major changes in the business models that will likely lead
higher productivity. Agriculture has very good development prospects.
It is estimated that can still take another million hectares, especially in the area
Northeast. Afforestation is still good growth potential, mainly
associated with product diversification. Also sheep production may jump
important.
Agricultural production is expected to play a crucial role in the overall development
our society and our economy. For that to happen it is necessary that the

years good decisions taken in relation to technological innovation,
scale production, environmental impact, food safety training
human resources, health and animal welfare. But above all, it is necessary to overcome
the rural-urban dichotomy leave behind the cartoonish visions and know how to exploit the
productivity revolution that has been occurring. Since our government will be encouraged
the generation of bridges of understanding between agriculture and the rest of the
society.
The present challenges
• While the overall picture is good, the livestock sector shows some symptoms
worrying. Since 2006 to date, meat production per hectare
down 16 percent. The fall is also verified if productivity is measured by
livestock unit. This process of falling output prices at a time
high cost is probably the uncertainties generated by the government.
The existence of two economic teams who disagree measures such as SoBe
withdrawals, or the doubts and difficulties associated with the export of live cattle,
caused a reduction in the generation of value in the primary sector that can
estimated at about 370 million dollars annually.
• Although the overall strength of the sector, there are still sub-sectors that have high
degree of brittleness. One of them is the farm: mainly a form of exploitation
based in the South, which not only has economic significance but a deep
social and demographic significance. Of the total of 12 000 producers missing
between agricultural censuses of 2000 and 2011, two thirds exploited
19 hectares lower surfaces, averaging located around 9.
• The most complex situation is the fisheries sector, which is facing depletion
a model of exploitation. In the last twenty years they have been reduced to plants
today be below the fifteen establishments. On the way they have been
large structures that are now largely unutilized.
• After ten years of insisting join a Mercosur that has distorted the country
faces a commercial isolation that can affect their exports. For instance,
outside the small quota of 20 thousand tons that manage refrigeration plants,
United States imposed on imports of Uruguayan beef with 26.4 percent.
Meanwhile, our main competitors, such as Australia and New Zealand,
enter duty free volume they want. The same is true of
Korea. Have opened this market is a huge achievement from the point of
health perspective, but success is largely symbolic because no one can compete with
a tariff of 40 percent for Uruguay against Australia a zero tariff.
• The poor state of roads, especially rural roads, creating increasing
problems to productive activity and increases costs in the sector. Given the deficit
maintenance accumulated over the years and the prospects for agricultural growth,
it is essential to give a short-term response (see about proposals
contained in the "Transport and logistics" in a country truly
productive).
• There is a general problem of inadequate human resources facing a
labor demand for constantly increasing (the number of workers
agriculture grew by 40% between 2000 and 2009). This imbalance continues despite
advances in working conditions and improving salaries

•

•

•

•

(In the period 2006-2009, the income received in the fastest growing area
agriculture rose 29 percent in urban areas and 33 percent in rural areas).
This phenomenon begins to limit the development of the sector and will become critical if not
Get reverse.
Increased agricultural activity posed environmental challenges that
He responded with a plan of land use and management controlled by the state. While
no opposition to the idea itself, its application brought problems that need
responses. For example, the obligation to generate areas of prairie is an artificiality
no economic logic that can cause price distortions. Also it requires
an investment of $ 1,500 per hectare, which at one time will cause
problems for small producers.
In recent times there has been a serious deterioration of the security
rural areas. The robberies have become frequent and extends rustling, although the
situation varies from one department to another. The result is a significant loss
quality of life combined with serious economic damage.
In recent years there has been a significant increase in the bureaucratic burden
on the sector. In some cases this was a condition for access to markets
and in others it happened for no apparent reason. By one way or another it has become more complicated
the administrative operations of the producers, who must spend long hours
make red tape that often require travel.
Some of the instruments provided by the State to intervene in the sector
agriculture need to be rethought and improved. One of them is the Institute
Colonization, which is today the largest landowner in Uruguay but has a success
limited both in social terms as productive. The other is the Agricultural Plan,
which it was created in a context very different from today.

Our vision: to seize opportunities to promote national development
The agricultural sector has enormous growth potential and a great capacity
to operate as an engine of economic and social development. This is due, among other things,
which is an area located at the very base of the production chain. Its relevance
It can be summarized in three points:
• Effect chain. For every peso generated by the sector, added 6.22
weights generated by the rest of the economy. This makes the sector more
impact on the overall economy. For example, manufacturing
generating 5.08 pesos and 6.08 services generate.
• Effect employment. Agriculture is the sector that has the greatest impact on employment. By
each additional unit of labor demand generated by the agricultural sector,
0.45 generates a demand for employment in families. The average for all
sectors of the economy is 0.39.
• Effect income. Agriculture is the sector with the most favorable impact on households
lower income. For every peso produced by the sector, the income of these
households increased by 1.46 (All data are from the Department of Economics
Faculty of Social Sciences of the University of the Republic)
The main condition for the agricultural sector to make its contribution to national development
It is not to put unnecessary obstacles to its dynamism. The rules and policies inadequate
may prevent us seize the opportunities we have today. For this risk

not concrete, some conditions are necessary:
• favorable business development environment. They lack clear rules
and good institutional quality. Agricultural activity has for long time
maturity investments, making it essential continuity and predictability
the regulatory and tax framework. The uncertainty and lack of clarity have effects
negative on investment.
•	Fiscal policy. A methodology for calculating the tax burden is necessary sectoral
covering all fees and taxes. To maximize the contribution to capacity
improvement in the living conditions of all Uruguayans, the transfer of resources
to other sectors of society must not jeopardize the profitability of the sector.
As a general rule, the taxation should be on income. Tax deductions
They should promote productivity.
• active trade policy. Of little value the quality of our products if then
We face trade barriers that prevent us from accessing markets. He
commercial isolation or inadequate defense of our interests in the fields
concerned (from Mercosur until the WTO) will inevitably have effects
negative on the level of activity.
• Infrastructure. In many areas of the country there is an immobilized agricultural potential
by logistics costs. The state of the roads and the rail network, the cost
freight and difficulties to access port terminals are problems
to which should be given top priority. The accumulated deficit maintenance
these years and the prospects for agricultural and forest growth require answers
short term.
• Careful use of natural resources. Sustainable development is development that
meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability
of future generations to meet theirs. This requires a careful use
water, soil and other natural resources. It also requires protection
life forms they are associated.
Our suggestions:

Measures to stimulate investment
It is proposed for the five:
• Ensure by all means legal certainty, eliminating uncertainties
on the implementation of existing standards (such as on export
of cattle) and ensuring continuity in time of the rules
fundamental.
• Keep deductions IRAE conducive to increased productivity.
• Prioritize taxes levied on fixed assets at different rates depending on whether or not
generating income (see about "economic policy" in a country
truly productive).
• Allowing the banking system owns cattle to give in the form of
Credit to the producer, the way they do today some private companies.
• update the regulations of the Central Bank to acompasarla to changes
They have occurred in the livestock business. For example, recognizing the strengthening of
livestock as collateral value generated by the controls exercised by the System
National Livestock Information.

• Foster from the Central Bank to develop agricultural futures markets,
such as now exist mainly in the bulk carrier area.
• Enable claims against the land so adjusted to the actual value,
through repurchase agreements to simplify enforceable action if
default.
• Enhance competition in demand fat cattle, facilitating the task of the
façon through the implementation of resolutions 03/46 and 04/85 of INAC.
• promote linkages between agriculture, rearing and wintering.
• tax incentives for the use of macro and micro nutrients, in order to
maintain and increase current levels of agricultural productivity.
Measures to improve competitiveness
It is proposed for the five:
• Articulate agricultural policy to foreign policy and especially with the
commercial diplomacy, to ensure open markets that are not purely
testimonial. Among other things, define a strategy for renegotiating the quota
Hilton and open new markets for sheep cuts with bone. This task not only
Foreign Ministry but also involves agencies such as INAC.
• Deepen generating information that is useful to decision makers.
The SNIA proposed by the MGAP is a good idea that deserves to be executed.
• Strengthening the link between producers and research institutes, with
To improve the ability to respond to the technological challenges. Reengineering
of the current institutions (Tables Technology, Advisory Boards, Cabinet
Innovation, INIA, ANII, etc.).
• Build strategic plans by sector which today has the sheep category.
• Reduce fiscal costs through measures such as increased caps
VAT deduction for the purchase of productive oil and authorization to liquidate
quarterly tax credits for VAT on diesel, admitting
use to pay for fuel (see the "Economic Policy" on A
Truly productive) Uruguay.
• Promote self-generation of energy, allowing transmission from an area to
and encouraging other irrigation pumps incorporating photovoltaic power
or with small generators (see "Power" on a country truly
productive).
• realize a shock infrastructure investment to prioritize "routes
cross "(such as 14 and 26) and reverse the deterioration of rural roads (see
section "Transport and logistics" in a truly productive country).
• Promote the incorporation of technology and renewal process by
tax incentives and the installation of a program of demonstration farms that
They will operate within the framework of institutional coordination between INIA, the Plan
Agriculture and private organizations such as the SUL.
• Develop work programs that accompany the transformation process
agro sector from a consumer basic information (yield per hectare,
weight, age of slaughter) to a heavily digitized process large sector
amounts of data (for example, linked to bioeconomics) which must be
transformed into decision rules. This process, which has already begun in agriculture and
will move to livestock, it will become essential for productivity gains

and efficiency.
• Pay special attention to health as a source of non-tariff barriers.
This requires combining the action on the ground (strengthening health plans,
quality control of vaccines sold in square) in one action
more determined at the level of international organizations such as the OIE.
• Promote the development of remote technologies for land management, such as
generation of early warning systems to potential fodder crisis.
Improvements in efficiency by reducing bureaucracy
Efficiency improvements will be promoted by way of simplifying procedures. In
particular it proposes:
• Simplifying the procedures for boarding livestock, especially by means of eliminating
permanence controls established during the last crisis of disease. This
protocols require a renegotiation of the relevant international fields.
• You check the system in place to collect the 1% sales tax
livestock, in order to simplify the process.
• Eliminate arbitrary and unjustified delays incurred in the MGAP
granting permits for the export of live cattle.
Water, irrigation and watershed development
Overcoming current production levels is conditioned incorporation
large-scale irrigation. A traditional restrictions climate change is added,
that seems to be changing our rainfall. This adds a new factor
instability in upland production. In particular it is proposed:
• Define a policy from the MGAP long term, focusing on the progressive increase
of irrigated areas.
• Create tax incentives for the construction of irrigation and property taxes
multiprediales.
• National Irrigation Program, funded with resources to get organizations
international finance irrigation works both at farm level and primarily
level irrigation basins. The financing will be in installments of 20 0 25 years as
way to allow adequate investment planning.
Plan to support the farm
The farming sector is of great social, economic and territorial importance. It's about
a particularly complex area, which contains a variety of items (production
vegetable vegetable, fruit, citrus, wine; animal production of poultry and swine) and a
geographical diversity (metropolitan region, Salto, Bella Union). In the structure
live production companies large and medium family farms. It is a sector in
evolution, a place where historical items with new export-oriented
(Olive growing, blueberries, cattle and sheep farming). Domestic marketing channels
They are changing, with an increasing weight of supermarkets (which already manage 60% of the
business). It is a fragile industry and exposed to risks that require quick responses and
efficient. In particular it is proposed:
• Strengthen the role of computer MGAP and institutional sector. JUNAGRA
It will operate as a school administrator of the Development Fund of the Farm.
• Support the diffusion of technology and quality systems, looking for standardization

product accessing the market value and stable prices.
• Eliminate up to 100% of VAT on diesel consumed by the farm (see section "Energy"
A truly productive in Uruguay).
• transparent and centralized import controls in place mechanisms
indirect and health certificates and paperwork.
• gradual installation of a system of subsidies for weather insurance, so
to make them accessible to producers.
• Policy support for the family farmer, to be executed by the National Institute of
Colonization. This policy will include measures to support young farmers to
they can buy the land their parents or siblings at the time of retirement or
frame of a sequence.
• Policy support for the conversion of items whose competitiveness is threatened.
Reformulation of the National Institute of Colonization
INC action was reoriented on the premise that the colonizing action has
focus on the person and not, as today, in the distribution of land as an end in itself.
The permanence of current settlers will ensure, whose situation is under
provisions of the Organic Law of the Institute. In addition, they will drive
following measures:
• Reform of the legal framework within which the INC works, strengthening its structure
technical and incorporating new models of work.
• emphasis on actions to strengthen family businesses, in order to
help overcome the weaknesses most frequently threaten their continuity:
human resource training, technical advice, technology transfer,
intergenerational over. The last ten years were one of the greatest periods
loss, especially family farmers.
• Promotion of associative economic and productive, strengthening the award
of land to groups, whether destined for rearing, wintering. or forage production
others.
• Promote, through programs of technical assistance and technology transfer,
incorporation of settlers and smallholders to value chains
greater opportunities for competitiveness.

• Emphasis on the comprehensive education of the settlers and their families, for the purpose of
increase competitiveness and achieve an overall improvement in the quality of life.
Measures to support the rural and semi-rural
This package has three objectives: to improve the quality of life
people living in rural and semi-rural, protect those activities
They face situations of vulnerability and reverse the shortage of skilled labor to
It is employed in farming. Other measures are proposed:
• Lower IMEBA rate up to 20% for small and medium producers
affected by this tax (see the "Power" on a truly Uruguay
productive).
• Responding to the demand for housing generated by new ventures
, promoting agro-industrial towns combination of size
intermediate and productive units that generate jobs.
• Rephrase the Agricultural Plan, guiding the farm and collective advice

small producers.
• Create an agrarian Baccalaureate distance that combine the use of new technologies
face communication with authorities, for which the costs would be covered
travel and accommodation (see the "Education" in a country of opportunities).
• Strengthen the school system and revise alternating current methodology.
• Incorporate the rural sector directory INEFOP permanent way.
• Efficient use of all MGAP programs for integral development
family businesses. Coordination between these instruments and Development Plan
rural family to be developed from the MIDES, including school support
distance, adult job training, advising on
health and digital literacy (see the "Social policies" on a country
opportunities).
• Incorporate the theme of the family business as a type of productive unit
faces specific challenges to be resolved (succession, subdivision, training
for the second and third generation, etc.).
• Develop curricula and attention to a new category of rural entrepreneur
emerged strongly in the last decade: the contractor. High levels of informality
and economic vulnerability (mainly due to borrowing) make
this phenomenon a potential source of not only economic problems but
social.
• Prioritize actions to protect health and safety in rural work,
designing specific policies for the sector (see the "Health and Addictions" in
A country that cares for its people).
• Equating the unemployment insurance scheme for rural workers to the
general.
• Create cardiological north IMAES Black River. The country can not continue accepting
that half the country is devoid of institutions intended to
most prevalent cardiac diseases (see the section "Health and Addictions" in A
country that cares for its people).
• Organize a network of critical care throughout the interior, by supplementing
Public-private. The network will include some points to organize a shuttle service
air emergency medical services (see the "Health and Addictions" in a country that
watch your people).
• Implement rounds with diagnostic health technologies (ultrasound, laboratory
clinical, mammography, etc.), with reference to the Project Sesame
Municipality of Florida (see the "Health and Addictions" in a country that cares for your
people).
• Reorganize the police deployment to better combat cattle rustling. Strengthen
the BEPRA and new tools (in coordination with INAC) to attack
illegal trading mechanisms task (see section "Public safety"
In a country that cares for its people).
Measures on animal health and welfare
Should devote all necessary efforts to protect our health status,
and practices that promote animal welfare. In this regard it is proposed:
• National Plan for Animal Health and Welfare, dedicated to the control and eradication of
major diseases affecting livestock productivity and integration into the

demanding export markets.
• Training of human resources devoted to prevention, control and eradication
diseases.
• Complement the work DILAVE involving private laboratories,
duly certified and accredited.
• Improve and enhance coordination with the private sector, for example through
CONHASA and CODESA.
• Renegotiation of international health protocols.
Support measures for fisheries development
Fisheries depletion model is a weakness in an area of ​​strategic value
for the country, while generating negative consequences socially. It has been
verified a process of reducing the number of companies and the primarization
industry (companies with low added value are those that tend to survive). Obstacles to
exports and the strong presence of foreign products on the domestic market are
causing serious problems in two areas of the sector: industrial fishing and
craft. In this regard it is proposed:
• Policy support for the renewal of the fishing fleet, defining the type of art and
fishing method suitable for the country and its natural resources (boats
industrialists are still operating 70 and 80).
• General review of the levy scheme, fishing permits and port charges, with
In order to give rationality to the functioning of the sector and create conditions for
establish tax incentives.
• Developing a business strategy for the whole sector, allowing
establish a "country brand" based on differentiation and diversification.
• Remodeling, professionalism and categorize artisanal vessels
by destination and volume, in order to increase the safety of the crew and the
control extraction methods.
• Coordination with institutions of technical and vocational training to revitalize
the sector lost jobs, and updating your profile hierarchizing training.
• Strengthening the DINARA, both institutionally and in the provision
qualified human resources. Official control of fishing should be in charge of
independent and well paid staff that meets the task of supervision in
all points in the chain.
• Creation of a single body of food safety controller, that has
highly qualified staff and little bureaucratic procedures control.
• Combating illegal fishing.
• Curbing predatory practices resource (such as damage to the riverbed and
to non-target species) produced by non-selective fishing methods. For that
It needs an update of the rules, along with a logistical effort and
information ensuring the respect of the exclusion zones and sizes
parts removed.
• Promoting aquaculture through better use of mirrors
water existing in the country. There are currently less than 5 species in operation. Is
studies necessary to advance and enable categorization sectoralization
productive areas.

Measures of environmental protection
It is proposed for the five
• Develop measures to control the use of pesticides and fertilizers in
near water sources (see "Environment" in a country
to care for your people). Designing control mechanisms subcontractors.
• Encourage and drinking wells.
• Create a recovery of containers of pesticides.
• Set Measurements use and land use, in order to achieve
better alignment with economic logic and, therefore, higher levels of
compliance. Reduce bureaucratic costs of implementation.
• Deepening the analysis of carbon footprint and water footprint in different
items as the basis for the implementation of policies to ensure the sustainability and
while they are protecting the country against new trade barriers, particularly
nontariff.

Sectoral Policies Industry


The process of diversification of the country should include strengthening
industrial activity. This is an essential step in the effort to advance the chain
value and reduce our dependence on international commodity prices
agricultural. The state can not hope to accomplish this task itself, resting
primarily on the ability and drive of entrepreneurs and workers. But
public decisions (both general and specific actions
industrial policy) can stimulate or hinder the dynamism of the sector.
Today there are some conditions that can contribute to the strengthening of activity
Industrial. Among these features easy access to a wide range of raw materials,
the health status of the country, the stability of the rules compared to
what happens in most of the region, easy access to an efficient port and existence
some rules (like regimes temporary admission and free zones
industrial parks) that stimulate activity.
However, there are also problems and difficulties are a source of concern.
The present challenges
• The economic policy of the last two governments have had effects on the exchange
exchange which seriously affected the competitiveness of the sector, inhibiting their
export capacity. The real exchange rate fell without interruption between the year
2005 and late 2013. This is serious in a country the size of ours,
you do not have a large domestic market to develop.
• The tax burden, high energy costs and the deterioration of road infrastructure
They add to foreign exchange problems for our production less competitive
Industrial. Uruguay now has electricity, gasoline, diesel and fuel oil more expensive
the region. The cost of our road freight transport is almost double that of Brazil.
• The malfunction of the Mercosur and the protectionist policies of our neighbors
(Explicit in the case of Argentina, indirect in the case of Brazil) have generated
serious difficulties of access to neighboring countries. The last two governments have
been able to reverse or mitigate this situation.

• At malfunction adds insulation Mercosur on trade
. Extra-regional The last trade agreement was signed with Mexico in 2003.
Since then there has been significant progress. This lack of success of our
commercial diplomacy puts a true ceiling and potential exports.
• The system of labor relations promoted by the governments of the Frente Amplio has
had high costs for industrial activity. The centralization of the mechanisms
collective bargaining and the scant attention paid to the diversity of companies
that they make up each sector generated risks and difficulties. The same applies to the
refusal to establish links between pay and productivity.
• The deterioration of industrial relations climate added tensions and uncertainties. The
Culture conflict installed in these years it increased production costs and
affected compliance with trade commitments. The decree occupations
Vazquez government weakened legal certainty and caused severe damage to individuals.
• The crisis in education and social policies promoted by past governments
They generated a severe shortage of labor that was not offset by the increase
real wages. This factor, which is already operating as a constraint to development
many enterprises, it may become critical in the future.
• Informality, the uneven application of existing legislation (eg on
environmental) and arbitrariness in granting subsidies and soft loans
They are distorting factors that undermine the proper allocation of resources and
often introduce elements of politicization of economic life.
Our vision: a sustainable and competitive industry
We are convinced that Uruguay has major potential for development
Industrial, which can take advantage insofar that a favorable environment is created.
Among the conditions to be sure as soon as possible they include:
• It is essential that there are clear and permanent rules of game, to provide
certainty necessary for the development of investment. Such rules should
included adequate and predictable fiscal framework, macroeconomic conditions
offer guarantees of stability and strict respect for the legitimate rights
all actors (non-union unionized workers, and
entrepreneurs).
• It is also essential for a fair and balanced relationship management
labor, that does not give the conflict the only answer to all difficulties have
into account the legitimate interests of all parties and lead to a wage policy
sustainable.
• Without excluding any pathway leading to the development of national industry, the country
You must define some strategic priorities to guide decision making. By
example, should be prioritized the development of industries that articulate with strings
agribusiness exporters. Integrate what we already do well is a way
more likely to start developing sectors from scratch.
• The industrial development of the country requires a major effort to improve competitiveness.
This requires coordinated action covering from the exchange rate policy to
infrastructure and fuel costs, including the design of new
wage bargaining models including productivity variable.
• The prospects for industrial development also require an effort in training
HR. In this respect, industrial policy has important points

Contact with educational policy. We need to improve our ability to
basic and technical training for the new generations, so that they can take advantage
employment opportunities, personal development and contribute to growth
of our society. We also need to include entrepreneurship among
issues to be worked in schools.
Our proposals
Institutional strengthening measures
It is proposed for the five:
• Ensure by all means legal certainty, eliminating uncertainties
on compliance with the existing rules and ensure continuity in the
time basic game rules.
• Generate regional and international benchmarking of costs for production
tradable goods (cost of utilities, fuel costs, contributions
social security, etc.) as a reference for making decisions that impact
on the "country cost".
• Develop strategic plans by subsector, which favor the development of industries
providers of export industries. For example, industries that cater to the
agribusiness chains (production of seeds, fertilizers, machinery and forestry
dairy).
• Analyze and resolve overlaps and conflicts between different
State agencies such as the Ministry of Public Health, Ministry of
Livestock, LATU, DINAMA and departmental governments. Progress should be made towards
a system of one-stop shop set requirements and give more predictable
transparency and operational agility.
• Ensure continuity and coverage of the services provided by customs, DGI,
BROU (imports and exports) and existing port operators, as
way to avoid overruns and lost customers for breaches.
Measures to improve competitiveness
It is proposed for the five:
• Reduce fiscal costs through measures such as increased caps
VAT deduction for the purchase of productive oil and authorization to liquidate
quarterly tax credits for VAT on diesel, admitting
use to pay for fuel (see the "Economic Policy" on A
Truly productive) Uruguay.
• Expand the category of large industrial consumers of gas and electricity,
in order to align the rates with those in the region and markets
competitive.
• Promote self-generation of electricity, allowing marketing to
private network through the UTE (see "Power" on a country truly
productive).
• realize a shock investment in road and port infrastructure (see section
"Transport and logistics" in a truly productive country).
• Keep the temporary admission regime.
• Restructure the system of indirect tax rebates for exports,
according to the reality of each sector.

• Stimulate lower employer contributions in the manufacturing sector, associated with the aggregate
value and employment generation.
• Predictability and continuity in the system of pre-export financing.
• Make extensive use of the Investment Act, revising the indicators so
that are better adapted to the reality of industrial enterprises.
• Encourage the creation of industrial parks. This system is a tool very
useful for the development of industrial activity, decentralization and sorting
territorial, which has been used successfully in many countries in the region and in Europe.
• Analyze changes to the system of government procurement to stimulate development
national capacity and create opportunities for micro, small and
medium enterprises.
• Promoting innovation through tax incentives, the introduction of technology
and renewal process. Strengthen programs to encourage ANII
innovation (see "Research, development and innovation" in a country
truly productive).
Commercial policy measures
It is proposed for the five:
• Articulate industrial policy to foreign policy and especially diplomacy
commercial, to ensure open markets. Resume practice abandoned
by the current government, in consultation with private actors during missions
international (see the "Foreign trade" in a country truly
productive).
• Creation of permanent arbitration tribunals between the Mercosur countries, with
binding deadlines and mechanism of tacit acceptance.
• Develop a strong extra-regional trade policy as a way to compensate
blockages and shortcomings of Mercosur in its current state.
Labor relations
• It is proposed for the five:
• Immediate Repeal of Decree 165/006 which regulates occupations
workplace as an extension of the right to strike (see section "Relations
labor "in a truly productive country).
• Generate a new negotiating framework on the Wage Councils, including
productivity considerations, lift mechanisms and clauses
safeguards (see section "Industrial relations" in a country truly
productive).
• Promote bilateral negotiations when appropriate, within the framework of the
recommendations made by the ILO (see the "Industrial relations" in A
truly productive) country.
• To promote a wage policy that favors the stability of jobs. Yes
we want to take care of the national labor and the most vulnerable workers, it is essential
ensure the sustainability of the system.
• Rebalance asymmetries produced in the workplace, as generated with
the project that the employer criminally liable for accidents
labor. The law already provides adequate instruments, which must be
applied correctly.

• Redesign the system of medical certificates in order to make it more agile,
provide greater guarantees to all parties.
Measures to strengthen human resources
It is proposed for the five:
• Strengthen the INEFOP, deepening ties with the productive sector. Creation
Program intergenerational cooperation, aimed at facilitating the transfer
for knowledge and life experience of young retirees in preparation
to join the working life (see the "Education Policy" in a country
opportunities).
• Create tax incentives for companies that prioritize training.
• Strengthen links between the productive sector and Bachelors of Technology
UTU.
• Creation of studying program goes further, to offer internships
students who have completed high school before age 20 years (see section
"Education Policy" In a country of opportunities).

Sectoral Policies: TOURISM
The tourism industry is the flagship of the service sector in Uruguay. The income
generated over the last decade far they exceed those generated by exports
soybeans (although the distances are shorter and is likely poor 2014 season
invest for the first time the relationship).
Tourism is an export of services that is unique to perform at
National territory. While consumers are moved to the country rather than consume their
places of origin (as normally happens with foreign sales), the result is a
Currency injection into the local economy, as with agricultural exports
or livestock. The difference is that traveling is not merchandise, but the consumer.
Tourism is also important because it generates significant "spillover effect". When
the tourism industry manages to attract a large number of consumers, many other
industries (such as internal trade and transport) improve their activity levels. By
that is a major source of jobs, both direct and indirect. It is estimated that in the
world today, one in twelve jobs is associated with this activity.
Uruguay's tourism industry has developed significantly in recent years,
mainly around three major poles of attraction: Montevideo, Punta del Este and
Cologne. Domestic tourism has also gained ground (for example, on the coast), although its
level of development is still comparatively moderate.
Beyond local particularities, this process follows international trends.
It is estimated that, in 2020, world tourism will reach 2.5 times the volume recorded
in the late nineties, which will mean an international spending 5,000 million
dollars per day, excluding the cost of international transport.
In Uruguay it has potential that would allow bow to this global trend
growth of the tourism industry. But also faces vulnerabilities that should be
overcome if we want to promote sustainable growth of the sector.

The present challenges
The tourism sector faces two types of difficulties. Some are structural,
ie are longstanding problems that continue to affect us as a country. Others are more
temporary and result from the policies pursued by the previous governments.
• The first structural weakness is the strong seasonality of the tourism business.
Although there has been some progress, largely linked to early development
domestic tourism, the success or failure of a season still playing in some
Within weeks of summer. The country continues to struggle to organize an offer
that attracts travelers throughout the year, or at least for an extended period.
• A second structural weakness is the strong dependence of countries
region, particularly the border. One decision of the Argentine government can
change the numbers of a year. While there has been some progress in this
matters such as the incorporation of cruise tourism, much remains
do.
• A third structural weakness is that tourism policies have tended to work
on demand (for example, organizing campaigns in neighboring countries) but
They have not paid the same attention to the supply side. Control and improvement
quality of tourism services is an area where there is still distance
countries that have achieved higher levels of professionalism.
• As for the problems of climate, the most serious was the lag in prices
dollar relative. The economic policy of the last two governments generated
constant fall of the real exchange rate between 2005 and late 2013. This mismatch
It was not offset by appropriate fiscal measures. The result is that Uruguay is
It became an expensive destination, not only for the region but for the world. He
bad result last season was not due to Argentines not to travel
(The figures show that traveled more than other years) without chose other destinations.
• Similarly, some decisions of the current government, such as those on
tax information exchange with Argentina, will not only affect tourist flows
but also investment. In the event that this situation is consolidated, it will be
affected the future development of some key sites such as Punta del Este. Not seem
These indirect effects have been properly calibrated when taking
decisions.
• The growing insecurity also affects the development of tourism, as it has
a negative impact on the country brand. That affects the decisions of new
and old customers. A more insecurity, more difficulties for the development of the
tourism industry.
• The lack of connectivity caused by the closure of Pluna had effects that were
serious short term and that, although mitigated in the following months, continue
weighing on the dynamics of the sector. Not only it became more difficult to travel to Uruguay,
but it became more expensive. This contributed to aggravate the problems of competitiveness.
• The limited capacity in advance of the expected effects of different decisions
government (such as information exchange agreements with Argentina or
Pluna closure) are indicative of a larger problem: the absence of a policy
tourism having global reach, ie not only be seen as a
Tourism Ministry issue but as a matter of national importance.
This absence makes us lose strategic clarity and confronts us with difficulties
avoidable.

• The lack of strategic clarity has also affected the ability to react to
negative events. In recent years, Punta del Este left to host a set
of events that contributed to giving visibility and generate tourist flows
(Whitbread Race, senior championship tennis stars from the top ten championship
Seven A Side of rugby, formula street race in March, off competitions
shore, international surfing championship, shows with stars first class
international). This process has just reversed.
Our vision: a competitive, diversified and seasonally adjusted tourism industry
The development of the tourism industry requires three types of updates.
First, you need to increase the competitiveness of the sector. This can be achieved
in part by way of improving the quality / price, but we can not forget that in the
Uruguayan context are crucial the effects of exchange rate and fiscal policies. As far
in the country to achieve global responses to the problem of competitiveness, industry
tourist find the right context to develop their full potential.
The seasonality is an essential condition for increasing the chances of
future development. Both for climatic reasons and scale, it is not reasonable bet
only summer tourism. You need to find ways to generate a
permanent demand, which in part may be generated by tourism development
internal but must necessarily have a regional or international component.
As a condition of the above, it is necessary to diversify the country's tourism. The brand
"Uruguay Natural" has allowed enhancing several of our most important resources
(Beaches, spas, rural tourism), but it does not include, and in some cases can become a cover, other
potential leverage. You need to diversify diversify supply also
public consumers.
Our proposals

Measures aimed at strengthening the national tourism industry
It is proposed for the five:
• Develop a 5-year strategic plan that establishes goals and strategies aimed
to increase the participation of the tourism industry in the national GDP. The plan should
ensure intersectoral vision involving both the public and the private.
• Create a national network of support for tourism infrastructure, providing a framework to
coordinated work of the Ministry of Tourism and the provincial governments. Is
network should channel loans and subsidies for the restoration and maintenance of
tourist attractions, as well as to establish common standards and controls
quality.
• Create a seal of quality tourism for use by hotels, restaurants, shops,
etc.
• To systematize and standardize the management of national tourist information.
• Working intensively broadcast channels and marketing both inside and
outside the region. Negotiate with first class tour operators; organize
promotional trips; involve embassies, consulates and offices Business
the outside.
• Order professional studies to identify market niches partners
new trends of tourism consumption (reducing the duration of

stays, holiday centers of interest, search for uncontaminated environments,
prioritization of the physical and emotional well-being, etc.).
• Improve coordination with the competent authorities (Ministry of Interior,
departmental governments, port authorities) to strengthen prevention
comprehensive crime and safety of tourists.
Measures to improve competitiveness
It is proposed for the five:
• Apply to all service stations in the country the same refund scheme
for the payment of fuels that applies in the border service stations,
when you are paying with foreign credit cards.
• Extending to other areas, such as clothing and entertainment, the VAT refund
for purchases made with foreign credit cards (now this regime
applied to the hospitality, food and car rentals).
• To foster better tools for information, consultation, book and pay online, encouraging inter alia the purchase of integrated packages that include
lodging, dining and entertainment.
Measures to encourage deseasonalization and diversification of supply
• Generate an agenda of shows and sporting competitions to be held
outside the high season period (from 15 December to 15 January).
Some of these proposals will be aimed at foreign audiences and others will point
to promote domestic tourism, following the successful model of "Patria Gaucha". The
planning and implementation of activities should be coordinated between the
Ministry of Tourism, the departmental governments and private actors.
• As a specific component of the above, call a call for proposals
to organize a show, contest or international annual competition
to become a brand with its own force.
• Develop congress tourism in Montevideo, Punta del Este, Colonia and other
towns. Is a flourishing industry in the world, which allows
attract customers with high purchasing power for much of the year. The development
This line of work should be a priority for the Ministry of Tourism.
• Bid cruise terminal strengthens Montevideo as boarding place
and disembarking passengers (see "Transport and logistics" in a country
truly productive).
• Extend the cruise tourism to the Department of Colonia. For that you need
This lengthen and widen the quay port of Colonia, and instruct the embassy
Uruguayan in London to process the rapid acceptance of nautical charts
electronic (see "Transport and logistics" in a country truly
productive).
• Encourage the development of river cruise traffic on the west coast. For
So, improve port infrastructure and developing combined proposals
coordination with regional governments and private agents (see
section "Transport and logistics" in a truly productive country).
• Implement a policy of development of tourist charter flights aimed at attracting
Consumers in neighboring countries. The package should include passages offer
subsidized low season, use of international airports

Upcountry (Laguna del Sauce, Paysandu, Salto, Rivera, Santa Bernardina)
lodging, dining and entertainment (see the section "Transport and logistics" in
A truly productive) country.
• Develop cultural tourism, with proposals aimed at both local public and
abroad (for which it is coordinated with development proposals cruise
river and charter flights in tourism). The various programs will be articulated
on the calendar of festivities and will aim to link the history, heritage
culture and geography in circuits that include museums, urban spaces and centers
both public and private cultural. In these scenarios will be developed events
cultural, permanent small plays and musicals that
suited to the historical background and the characteristics of each enclosure.
A special form of cultural tourism is ethnotourism, which refers to spaces
ancestral character, mainly indigenous and colonial world (see section
"Culture" in a country of opportunities).

FOREIGN TRADE
A country the size of ours must be a cosmopolitan country. Unlike
nations with large populations, Uruguay does not have the possibility to bet on growth
of its domestic market as a dynamic factor in the economy. If we want
grow, we necessarily have to do it out, diversifying markets
which we agree. Therefore it is very important to a good defense of foreign trade. By
more efforts to make those who produce wealth in our ground if we do not get
markets can not strengthen.
This was always a concern for Uruguayans, but it is now more than ever.
The growing problems of Mercosur, together with a global tendency to form
major trading blocs (such as the Pacific Alliance budding or agreement between
United States and European Union) pose the danger of leaving us in a situation of
isolation. The way he has handled the international integration of the country during the
last two governments has aggravated our vulnerability to this risk.
The present challenges
• In the course of our foreign service frentistas governments suffered a double process
weakening. First, there was a growing deskilling: the
"Presidential diplomacy" (with its counterpart of "roving ambassadors" character
political) replaced the professional diplomacy, whose natural home is Chancellery. In
Secondly, commercial diplomacy lost weight from political diplomacy.
Both processes seriously eroded our bargaining power.
• As a result, the country had an erratic and confused foreign policy.
The diplomacy based on national interests of medium and long term was
replaced by a diplomacy of "ideological affinities". This commitment did not work
in the government of Tabare Vazquez (who never managed to secure traffic
international bridges) nor in the government of José Mujica (who had a
Initial success in lifting the cut but then just give without getting anything
change).
• The country not only lost clarity in strategic management policy

•

•

•

•

outside, but left one of her best traditions: his attachment to channels
institutional and international law as the only defense of the interests of
small countries. Instead of delegations to strengthen institutional settings
of primary importance, such as the Administrative Commission of the River Plate
(CARP) and the Uruguay River Administrative Commission (CARU), opted for a
roasted diplomacy and personal encounters. As a result, today we have less
institutional and political deadlock.
The weakening of trade diplomacy led the discussion with countries
neighbors to stay away from issues vital to our economy and to focus on issues
dubious political importance. While issues such as dredging were postponed
on the agenda proliferated statements about international espionage or
peace negotiations in Colombia.
Mercosur is no longer a tool of open integration into the world
become an instrument of protectionist policies promoted with our
neighbors. As a result, membership in the bloc has led to a growing
commercial isolation: we have renounced negotiate bilateral agreements with third
countries unable to benefit in exchange for the opportunities that we could
accessed through the block (as the draft agreement between the European Union and
Mercosur) because some of our partners the block.
The weakening of our foreign policy have also prevented progress
on some issues affecting the inner workings of Mercosur,
as the issue of asymmetries between partners or the use of sanitary barriers
protecting national markets. We can not negotiate but not out
We have been able to do within the block.
The ideological orientation given to foreign service also weakened
coordination with national private agents, which contributed to the lack of
a business strategy well designed and the abandonment of any attempt to practice
"Market intelligence".

Our vision: commercial diplomacy as a priority
Uruguay has an agenda full of challenges in international trade.
The most appropriate instrument to address them is an active commercial diplomacy,
that is, the use of human resources at the Foreign Ministry and
diplomatic missions to facilitate access to new markets
goods and services produced in the country. The objective of trade diplomacy
promote economic growth, genuine employment and general welfare by
internationalization of enterprises, increasing exports and attracting
foreign investment.
Commercial diplomacy includes, among other things, the promotion of products and
image of the country, the political support for international business activity (for example,
streamlining administrative decisions of foreign governments), the provision of services
supporting export activity, active participation in the institutional framework
international trade and the "market intelligence" (ie, identifying
trends, opportunities and threats by analyzing business information).
Our strategic goal as a government is to strengthen commercial diplomacy,
improving training and human resources management, instructing representations
Diplomatic abroad, strengthening the areas of negotiation delegations to bi or

multilateral and building channels of communication and cooperation with the productive sector
National and state.
Commercial diplomacy is more than having advisors or commercial attaches
in embassies. It is a strategic choice on how to conceive of the country links
the outside.
Our proposals
Looking to the next five years, two challenges appear as priorities. The first is
to mend relations with Argentina without compromising the interests
nationals. The importance of that country for the development of our trade and our
Ports can not be ignored. The second challenge is to rethink our policy
depending on the commercial complex picture we face both regionally and
International.
In this framework we make the following proposals:
Measures to strengthen the professionalism in the design and implementation of policy
exterior
• Develop a national trade strategy that encompasses all aspects of
Uruguayan foreign trade and watch the interests of all its stakeholders (operators
logistics, importers, exporters, carriers, etc.). This task will be assigned
the current Interministerial Commission for Foreign Trade Affairs (CIACEX), which
It will be strengthened with the addition of representatives of private actors,
business and social.
• Concentrate activities of commercial management of the country in the current Unit
Commercial Programming of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, involving
MEF representatives and private participation.
• strengthen instruments such as Uruguay XXI and single window of foreign trade,
today are too bureaucratic profile and therefore being
underutilized.
• Strengthen the role of the Artigas Foreign Service Institute, promoting partnerships
with the private sector and academia to develop prospective analysis
the country and its markets.
• Create a specific training program for Ministry officials
Foreign trade matters, to be conducted in coordination with
domestic and foreign universities.
• Prioritize the presence of diplomats specialized in commercial matters
in representations located in countries with which they have strong ties
commercial or aspires to deepen as well as in international organizations
where issues are discussed or negotiated commercial nature.
Measures aimed to mend relations with Argentina
• Strengthen the embassy in Argentina, giving HR
in sufficient quantity and quality. The Embassy does not get to have 10 staff today
diplomats, who must attend all political, economic, trade issues,
tourist, cultural and cooperation. About this site also links lie
with 45 concurrent embassies operating in Buenos Aires. You need one
new structure that includes a permanent support for trade negotiations

and policies.
• The ambassador to Argentina should be a person with a history up to the
responsibility will exercise, and must act according to clearly defined policies
and coordinated with the Foreign Minister. There should be a single line of action
and professionalization of the task.
• Appoint against CARP and CARU ambassadors of the highest hierarchy regime
dedication. Officials today represent us in these commissions
perform other important tasks, which hinders proper dedication
function. In addition to having full-time, those who occupy these positions
They must be persons with negotiating skills that match the
importance of the issues under discussion.
• You need to design fluid channels of communication between the members of these
commissions, the embassy in Buenos Aires, the bodies responsible for managing
national port and private actors most directly affected by the
decisions are discussed.
• Design policies of medium and long term as a framework for the work of the
CARU delegations and the CARP. It is necessary to have clear guidelines on
ports, dredging, vessel traffic and cargo handling. There is also
that have clear positions on key issues such as the Multilateral Agreement
Maritime Transport and ideas to promote initiatives necessary
as a Comprehensive Development Plan Uruguay River.
• In the event that no bilateral negotiations to overcome blockages
existing, the country should consider the mechanisms go
jurisdictional both within Mercosur and by way of the World
Trade. These roads are usually slow, but they are a clear signal
will to defend national interests it would be clearly perceived by
foreign investors willing to settle in Uruguay.
Measures aimed at strengthening the position of Uruguay in the Mercosur
• Strengthening the Directorate of Integration and Foreign Ministry as MERCOSUR
Key to the negotiations with the region instrument. The Directorate has
diplomats currently with 6 "stroke" which should be responsible
all aspects relating to the negotiations in MERCOSUR,
including nearly twenty technical groups they are operating. Is
possible to strengthen this body with highly qualified staff without creating new
charges. A Ministry that multiplies the roving ambassadors without fixed function can
make better use of their human resources.
• Provide greater permanence to the technical teams involved in the
negotiations in the framework of Mercosur. High turnover is conspiring against us
negotiating capacity. For more stable delegations it is necessary to introduce
incentives that reward achievement of permanence and negotiating objectives.
• To convene a Special Meeting of Mercosur CMC to discuss issues
strictly economic and commercial. Since the recent summits and meetings
It focused on political and ideological aspects of questionable relevance, it intends
convene a meeting to work on an agenda that includes problems
new Customs Code of Mercosur, the free zone regime, negotiations
with the European Union structural funds and road convergence and integration

energy.
• Promote a renegotiation of the Multilateral Agreement on maritime transport
offers better prospects for all members of the bloc. The actual
project, strongly driven by Argentina, to add further injury
Uruguayan interests. So far the country has opposed its adoption without proposing
alternatives, which has left him alone. It is urgent to defend proposals
easing to offset the asymmetries between partners. Given the difficulties
Negotiation is essential to ensure the participation of professional staff
Chancellery in the Technical Group 5 of Mercosur, where the issue is processed. In the
recent years, many meetings of that group were no staff but Foreign Ministry
Only the Ministry of Transport.
• Ask for the corresponding formal way the need to review the decision
CMC No. 32/00, in order to redefine the strategy of trade negotiations
with third parties, either from the Mercosur and from the States Parties. The
review should prioritize negotiations altogether, but enabling areas
negotiation mechanisms and bilateral instrumentation to be used by each
one of the States Parties where it is not possible a common position. Mercosur
You should agree on general guidelines, leaving the posterior bilateral negotiation
in the hands of each member. By way of example, Uruguay could seek an FTA with
country outside the Mercosur, admitting the participation of other States Parties
in the negotiations. The round will culminate in an agreement involving several
Mercosur countries or only the state which promoted the negotiations, provided
is reached signing a Preferential Trade Agreement.
• If there is no political will to review the CMC Decision No. 32/00,
Uruguay will question its legitimacy. Since the text does not state whether or not to
be internalized in the legislation of each Member States, it is doubtful
it is binding on Uruguay, who never did endorse by Parliament.
• In the event that the authorities do not give trading results may Uruguay
recourse to judicial mechanisms of Mercosur, which have been forgotten
by the last two governments to respond to the ongoing violations
to block the legislation. The two judicial mechanisms that can be
consultations are driven to the Permanent Review Tribunal (TPR) and
actions before the Ad-hoc tribunals. Both should be used intensively.
• Regardless of what corresponds to the institutional level, Uruguay
to better take advantage of business opportunities that are opened within the
Mercosur. In this context, they should be prioritized ties with Paraguay. The
foreign policy of the current government does not seem to have registered that Paraguay is the
country that grew the most in 2013 in Latin America. This is the country of the Mercosur
with greater growth potential. There are now important Uruguayan investments
in Paraguay, both land acquisition and service delivery
logistics (there is a liquid trading of goods coming from Asia and enters the
Montevideo port, and then continue to Paraguay by river or land).
Our Foreign Ministry has not given this issue the importance
it deserves, mainly for political-ideological reasons. The strategic error
Historical involving having supported the suspension of Paraguay in Mercosur should
be rectified.

Measures aimed at finding and exploiting opportunities outside
Mercosur
• To promote and strengthen the participation of Uruguay at the World Organization
Trade and the World Customs Organization, two governing bodies
almost all international trade. In recent years the country has resigned
have a relevant participation in these forums (especially the first)
when the technical qualification of our human resources would allow us to recover
role.
• Independent attempts to loosen Decision 32/00, Uruguay can be served
Agreements with Mercosur Economic Complementation Colombia and Peru
to finalize bilateral free trade agreements that increase the presence of
our products in those markets. These bilateral agreements may become
in a way of indirect access to wider agreements signed by the Alliance
Pacifico.
• Give high priority to the advancement of the negotiations between Mercosur and the Union
European to reach a free trade agreement. Again, the main
obstacles to this process are being put by Argentina. Uruguay should do cause
common with Brazil and Paraguay, which have proved prone agreement, either
pressure on the government of Buenos Aires or to move towards a compact 3 + 1.
• Improve and complement the various franchises and logistical tools
with which our country (free zones, free port and airport, deposits
tax) for the purpose of consolidating Uruguay as load distribution center
regionally.
• It is essential to approve as quickly as the new Customs Code
Uruguayan Parliament today to study and regulatory standards
corresponding.
Measures of trade facilitation
• Redefine the profile of the customs services, to transform them into agencies
promotion of foreign trade. Your current profile, essentially sanctioning,
It does not correspond to the best international practices. It's necessary
transform facilitators that help cut costs and to defend
national operators from unfair trade. This requires both changes
organizational and regulatory.
• As part of this, simplify, harmonize and streamline procedures
Border customs for import, export and transit.
They needed more transparent processes, more in line with national legislation
current, and consistent with international best practices. The main objective
It will substantially reduce the bureaucratic cost of all operations.
• Convert to e-commerce into an opportunity, rather than treat only
as a threat. This requires developing training and support programs
technology, especially aimed at small and medium enterprises.
• Strengthening and improving the Export Easy system, simplifying processes and eliminating
the maximum amount of export. The aim is to promote export activity,
not limiting.
• Establish the institute of "binding request" in customs matters. Is
tool will allow operators to prevent any errors in good faith before

carrying out any operation of foreign trade. Thus, it is removed
the discretion of the authorities and increase the rights of
taxpayers who will benefit from greater certainty, transparency and security
legal.

SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION
For well over a century, economic activity was associated with the model
"Industrial society". The key institution of this society was the factory where a force
repetitive tasks that meet labor could produce large quantities of goods
manufactured at costs that put them within reach of masses of consumers. That model
highly standardized (and therefore more efficient than previous handicraft production)
It gave rise to the classic business organization, trade unions, and socialist ideas
theories "of ECLAC" that justified the state interventionism and import substitution.
Today's society is very different. The flexible technology allows products
differentiated, developed in very short times. Markets have become accustomed
this possibility and ask new products every season. The customer can choose and
demand becomes more differentiated. The stage production is still important,
but the design, development of new products and marketing have gained
huge role. Also logistics, that is, the ability to deliver in time and
form product with global reach.
Factories are automated and computerize. The tasks no longer require repetitive
make decisions based on technical knowledge. Organizational functions
and coordination become increasingly important. Supply chains are
distributed throughout the world. The management is a central element, able to ensure the success or
the failure of an industry. The low skilled labor jobs are disappearing and
workers are relocating to other sectors such as services.
It is the "knowledge society", and is also the "innovation society". The
creativity that characterizes not only results in new products, but also in
new processes, new business models and new ways of marketing. For
all that is essential to the continual introduction of new technological supports.
Who now get better placed in the productive chains are who they are
able to use technological innovation to capture new ideas that take
the shape of goods or services.
The ability to innovate stems from creativity, business skills and
creation (or appropriation) of new technologies. The creation of new technologies requires
turn new scientific knowledge, or new ways to use knowledge
existing. Hence the three main activities of the companies that produce arise more
wealth: research, development and innovation. The relationship between them is complex.
It is not doing basic research to support applied research
which develop new products. This linear vision has been overtaken by reality
more chaotic. Someone has an innovative idea involving a new product or service;
to implement it uses technologies that rely on scientific developments
previous rarely were made considering that application. The contribution of innovative
It is to discover this new use. To do this he uses knowledge produced in
other countries and learn from business experiences often occurring in other

markets.
This is a process of global scope and difficult to predict where the matter
connections between those at the forefront of technology and those who know
the markets. The challenge is to build capacity and encourage them to interact, without
pretend planning of scientific and technological development based on defined objectives
for some bureaucracy. We must achieve synergies assuming that the fundamental tasks
They develop in different areas: Basic research in academia, development
technical institutes or companies, and innovation almost always in companies with capacity
commercial. The research produces knowledge, development produces new products
or procedures, and innovation generates new business. They do not work with the same
logic or the same times. The only thing in common is that all these
demand many resources and activities are risky. Product development has
some predictability, but commercial success is often uncertain. The researcher
working at the frontier of knowledge can take years to find a result. The
amending a business innovation can occur quickly or never come.
For all these reasons, achieving an ecosystem capable of producing innovation requires creating a
atmosphere exchange between academia and business, as well as having a support
State finance to mitigate costs and allow learning to sustain efforts
medium and long term. The most competitive economies are those that succeed in
this task. This is easier to achieve in those countries with leading industries,
such as pharmaceuticals, electronics and software, because they all have the need
to innovate to survive.
The Uruguay has a long history of efforts to promote science, technology
and innovation. Earlier this year a century of creating "La Estanzuela" is met,
a pioneer in Latin America in research on genetic improvement
grain and crop rotation. This station, along with others created later
(Such as Halloween, opened in 1961) it integrates the INIA since its inception in 1989. In
1927 created the Institute for Biological Research today Clemente Stable and makes it almost













in Montevideo.

Despite this long list of valuable efforts, there are now problems needed
face and overcome.

The current difficulties
• While the country has increased the resources dedicated to research, development and
innovation, the total does not reach 0.5% of GDP. Developed countries turn over much
more than that. Aside from being scarce, available resources are used in Uruguay
a too fragmented. Financed projects from many disciplines
and therefore, the amounts per project are small. So not only
you have to spend more, but have better strategic decisions.
• The academic-industry relationship is still weak, and too often only
involving public companies (ANCAP, ANTEL, UTE). The agricultural export profile
country does not favor the existence of a wide variety of intensive companies
knowledge and export capacity. If you want to deepen the dynamics of
Innovation is necessary to create conditions for the emergence of new types of
ventures. ANII Sectoral Funds have been an improvement, but should
deepen its approach to achieving impact.
• Creating ANII meant to modernize the institutional framework
science, technology and innovation in the country, but the distribution of funds makes
we are facing a reality divided into halves. The Sectoral Research Commission
Scientific (CSIC), University of the Republic operates a similar budget
at ANII, which is intended to house programs have little impact on the sector
productive. Although there are interesting nuclei in the state university sector
(Eg in faculties of engineering, chemistry and agronomy), bureaucracy
academic inbreeding and mistrust of the private sector remain
obstacles to overcome. The modernization effort is still a task to complete.
• Political conflicts over the direction of the ANII have compounded the problem
above and have generated doubts about the continuation of efforts to update the
national system of research, development and innovation. In the course of these years,
ANII has exhibited a low degree of politicization and has been able to allocate resources
reasonably fair manner between different sectors (academia
and company) and between private and state orbit orbit (typically between
University dela Republic and private universities). Any distance
This line of action would be a setback for the country.
Our vision: towards an ecosystem that integrates research, development and
Innovation with the national productive system
The main strategic objectives we are:
• Increased spending on research, development and innovation. The current budget
ANII is small (less than 50 million USD per year). No impacts will be achieved
Relevant without raising this figure, within limits compatible with the balance of
public accounts.
• competitive instruments. It is necessary to continue and deepen the use of instruments
transparent and competitive for distribution of public resources between actors
who can articulate valid capabilities. The sustainability of the system not only
increased financing needs in line with the room for fiscal action but also
a high degree of legitimacy.
• Integrated view. It seeks to promote an ecosystem, not only to give money to
different activities or institutions unconnected. Construction should be rewarded
synergies.

• Internationalization. A country like Uruguay can not advance in this field without
a strong relationship with centers of excellence abroad. It should be encouraged
integration research networks in the region or the world.
• minimum scales. We must break the inertia of giving little support to many
small projects, to bet stronger in some strategic directions
they can change the production profile of the country.
• Entrepreneurship. Entrepreneurship is the key to the formation of new
knowledge-intensive economic sectors, with strong innovative profile. There are
be nurtured from the different institutions and in the educational system (see
respect the "Education" on a land of opportunity and the "Relations
labor "in a truly productive country).
Some measures to develop from the government:
It is proposed for the five:
Institutional strengthening measures
• Strengthen the ANII and give continuity to its programs, including the System
National Researchers (SNI), programs to support innovation and
innovative companies, funds basic and applied research and training
human resources, among others. Avoid the "refounding" planteos. A non-
You can start again every five years.
• Connect the Ministerial Cabinet of Innovation with the Productive Cabinet. Define the
Cabinet (MEF, MEC, MIEM, MTOP, MGAP, OPP) as the highest authority in the
definition of strategic development framework R & D + i, in coordination with the
production policies and development plans.
• Provide ANII a rented three-member board to ensure its dedication
and independence. Remove the Directorate of Science and Technology and assign MEC
its functions to the ANII. Keep two honorary members representing the
CONICYT.
• Redefine the integration of CONICYT to involve other ministries
Productive Cabinet members, the business sector, universities and
research (INIA, IIBCE, Pasteur, LATU). This advisory area has
as main task the preparation and review of PENCTI, and can be ordered or
develop studies on the progress of the national STI system. It serves as an organ
comptroller of the system and can request reports from ministries and universities.
It may make recommendations for the whole sector or some of its
components.
Instruments for promoting R + D + i
• Increase spending on research, development and innovation through the budget
ANII through open and competitive programs promoting innovation,
technological development and innovation, as well as support for training
senior human resources.
• Build Strategic Programs for R & D aimed at developing technology and
innovative companies in key competitive areas of the country. Use
these instruments to concentrate the allocation of resources according to criteria
strategic.
• Continue to promote partnerships with public and private companies around

issues of interest as a way to achieve development and technology
innovative responses to specific problems.
• Generate a local development plan in doctoral and postdoctoral areas
Key to bet on capacity building that impact in our system
academic
Dynamic entrepreneurship and new businesses
• Encourage entrepreneurship in new generations of Uruguayans, coordinating
with ANEP promoting entrepreneurial skills in education.
• Encourage the development of entrepreneurial ecosystem, which includes incubators,
the co-work spaces, universities, chambers of commerce, trade unions,
agencies promoting entrepreneurship and investors clubs.
• Support the birth of young companies and start-ups from
existing businesses, strengthening coordination between ANII, Ingenio incubator
LATU, the National Development Corporation, the venture capital funds
and business associations to promote entrepreneurship.
• Develop entrepreneurial networks that provide interconnection between young
trained, entrepreneurs and investors.
• Attracting venture capital and entrepreneurs from the region and country
developed by stimulus programs that provide public funds
equivalent or superior to the amounts contributed by investors.
• Strengthen accelerators and technology parks, and with public support
international, in partnership with other actors in the system.

Agenda National Party government
Chapter 4

A proud country
its institutions

Agenda National Party government
Chapter 4

A country proud of its institutions
Introduction
In much of Latin America in recent years it has been a period of decline
institutional. Legal security has been weakened, the personalities have passed
above the rules, appeals to the majority (real or fictitious) have been used
as an argument to justify restrictions on fundamental rights. In several countries
neighbors justice has lost independence, the press has been harassed, the apparatus
State has been used to intimidate opponents and economic activity has been damaged
by a general loss of predictability and security.
Also in Uruguay there are worrying phenomena, which can be summarized in the famous
phrase about politics prevails over the law. However, many episodes
They confirm that our republican institutions still have a vigor and capacity
who they have lost response elsewhere. Declarations of unconstitutionality
by the Supreme Court, court decisions that forced the
education authorities to disclose figures who preferred to hide, or the green light of the Court
Elections to a new political organization that will compete for the Montevideo
are signs of institutional strength that others envy us. Maybe the government
I have lived each of these decisions as a defeat, but were wins for
all the Uruguayans.
Our fidelity to republican institutions is an essential part of what we
defined as a nation. In a continent that has known all political adventures,
Uruguayans we stand by our commitment to representative democracy and order
legal. We believe that the will of the majority is the sole source of political legitimacy,
but we believe that the majority are legitimate only when they remain respectful of
fundamental rights. We are not willing to be led by any enlightened,
but we are not willing to submit to a majority that becomes overbearing.
So we've always believed in the separation of powers and limited government.
An essential component of our government program is to respect and strengthen
this pillar of our national tradition. We know that political power is important and
we exercise it. But we affirm as a dogma that politics must always
under what legal. Power without law is tyranny.
So we are committed to scrupulously respect the Constitution and laws as well
Law as to adjust all decisions of previous governments to consider
that attempt the legal order. But we want to go further. We want to reform the
public administration, so that it becomes more transparent and more clearly the
service of citizens. We want to strengthen mechanisms for accountability
to citizens, increasing the weight of the audits and cross-checks. We want
return autonomy and influence to a regulatory units that have been

weakened.
We want the basic functions of the state (defense, security,
foreign) relations are in the hands of professionals, and that these personnel are
subject to political control. We do not want intelligence without parliamentary control,
nor we want a tangle of commercial companies that allow weaken
controls on public companies.
Do not want a country governed by opaque bureaucracies, nor by politicians who practice
crony capitalism, not by corporations focused on the defense of their own
interests. We want a country of citizens. With clear rules. Rights and duties
well defined.
We want, whatever happens in the region, the Uruguayans can continue feeling
proud of our institutions, as it has always been. We are willing to search
agreements and understandings, but never move the limit. What should be the legal framework
for a civilized exercise of politics.

PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION AND TRANSPARENCY


Our country is characterized by the strong influence of the state on economic and social life.
This means that the proper functioning of the public sector generates many consequences
positive and malfunction generates many negative consequences. The effects
They are more noticeable than in other countries where the state plays a lesser role.
Frente Amplio governments have brought a reversal in this field. The Uruguayan State
today spends more money than ever, but the quality of spending has been bad. The items in the
biggest spender (security, education, health, housing and other social policies) are the
recorded worse results. Uncontrolled handling public money (for example, through
companies that escape the control of the Court of Auditors) has reached levels
without precedents. The number of positions of trust is at its historical peak.
The Uruguayan government has become more expensive, less efficient and less transparent. We
we want to reverse this situation. We want a state in the service of society and controlled
by citizens. We want a responsible use of public funds and mechanisms
accountability to honor the efforts made by taxpayers. We want
strong and independent regulatory units, vigorous Court of Auditors
control mechanisms of the budget execution to rectify mistakes on the
March. We want genuine decentralization and transparency.
It is not about more or less government. This is a better state.
The current difficulties
Almost two governments concluded the Broad Front, the main difficulties facing
the public sector are:
• Public spending has grown to a size unknown in the history of
country. The state budget rose from 28 percent of GDP in
2000 to represent 33 percent in 2012. These five points of growth
represent much more money than it may seem, because in that period
GDP grew nearly 45 percent. It means that it is a larger portion
of a much larger pie. In current dollars, the public sector expenditures
They went from almost 7 billion in 2000 to more than 16 billion in 2012.
• An important part of this growth in spending was used to finance jobs
public. Today the country has the largest number of public officials throughout their
history: nearly 300,000. Only between December 2004 and December 2013,
the figure increased by about 51,399, and an increase of 5,619 employees not
civil servants. This represents more than 500 new positions per month for all
those years. And the pace continues unabated. Only in the first months of 2014
They added 2,000 positions.
• A specific chapter in the human resources issue is the growth of charges
confidence, which were particularly addicted governments Front
Wide. In 2004 (ie, before he became President Tabare Vazquez)
A total of 137 were remunerated positions of trust in the state. In the year 2012
there were 271 charges of this type, which means that nearly had doubled. The state
spends tens of millions of dollars a year today in the remuneration of those
these positions.
• Strong growth in the number of public employees was not accompanied by
good policies for recruitment, induction and training. The result is that there

•

•

•

•

a relatively widespread quality human resources problem. A part
who perform meaningful tasks in public administration have not been
received the preparation required for good performance.
Or increasing the budget or increasing the number of staff occurred
significant improvements in the quality of services provided by the state. The same
while spending and the number of staff grew, education crumbling,
road infrastructure it deteriorated and the health system had increasing problems
operation. It spends more and more, but efforts are made to improve
the quality of spending.
Along with the loss of efficiency, there has been a serious loss in these years
transparency and a weakening of control mechanisms. A first example of
this phenomenon is the emergence of a "parallel state" composed by more than half
hundred commercial companies owned by public companies (such as
ANCAP or ANTEL) but are governed by private law. These companies handle
with public funds that make capital expenditures, investments and recruitments,
but beyond the control of the Court of Auditors. Its performance and results
They earning only are observed by the same directories that have
I created. A second example is the progressive weakening to which they were subjected
regulatory units of large utilities (telecommunications,
post, energy, hydrocarbons, water and sanitation) as URSEC and URSEA,
to which powers are limited, they are removed budget resources and are
reduced the functional and organizational autonomy.
The design and operation of public administration still put the citizen
the focus of attention. Many procedures are organized in order to facilitate the
task of officials, without considering the costs (waiting, transportation, supply
information) that are loaded on the user. When information is provided on
the progress of the different steps, often presented in the language
incomprehensible to the average citizen, or organized according bureaucratic steps
who can only understand the officials. The citizen is funding the
Public administration and the reason for its own existence, but still the
Figure again postponed. It forgets that the state is primarily an instrumental be at
service of the person.
While progress has been made in the use of technology to facilitate communication between
users and the public administration, the fact is insufficient and often
It is misguided. Designing computer useful not always take into account the
major barriers to access to the network: age, socioeconomic stratum
they belong to the citizens, the cultural level and the diversity of situations
personal (such as physical or visual disabilities). There is ignorance
widespread on the procedures that can be performed electronically.

Our vision: an efficient, responsible and civil service hierarchy
We want a transparent, efficient and closer to the citizenry. We also
a state that treats them with respect to public officials, giving them opportunities
building a career that allows them to develop their best potential.
To guide us in this general direction, we intend to adjust our action
Government to the following principles:
• professionalization of the civil service. The recruitment of civil servants

•

•

•

•

It must take into account basic requirements of justice and suitability. Once
admitted, officials should receive appropriate training and should have
its scope promotion opportunities and wage improvement that relate to the
quality of their performance. Assessment procedures must have a base
solid and should offer the same guarantees to all tested technique. The figure
public official should be revalued and hierarchical.
Transparency and accountability. The State does not operate with its own silver, but
with money provided by taxpayers. This requires applying procedures
very transparent and accountable decision on achievements and failures. Mechanisms
control must include, of course, control of legality, but they should go pretty
beyond. It is necessary to create conditions for an assessment of the quality of
management, including the assessment of economic performance. Good or bad
quality of results should have implications on functional career
who they are responsible for the decisions.
Focus on the citizen. The ultimate criterion for evaluating the performance of the
Public administration and performance of its officials should be the impact on
the citizen. A government that postpones the interests of the user,
subjected to unnecessary delays, it forces him to move unnecessarily or victimizes
abuse is a government that is not working properly.
Provide an efficient service in an atmosphere of mutual respect and caring for others is the
ultimate goal. Everything else should be set to search for that achievement.
Bureaucratization. The first condition to ensure efficient service and
respectful of the citizen is the simplification of procedures. Achieving this objective
It requires a thorough process reengineering, to avoid overlaps, delete
downtime and decrease the amount of bureaucratic steps by
better use of information available on the administration.
This effort reorganization process can be facilitated by
incorporation of new technologies. It also requires adequate communication
which allows citizens to take ownership of the new resources for
efforts.
Decentralization. The Uruguayan public administration remains highly centralized.
A significant proportion of the formalities required geographical shifts. Even
If the steps that have been decentralized, displacement is imposed
before the emergence of the least bureaucratic difficulty. This heritage of the past should
be revised. Technological development and process reengineering can make us
significant progress on the path of decentralization that favor the
farthest from the city population and those living in the suburbs
of large cities.

Our proposals
A better functioning of the state structure requires progress at three levels. In first
Instead, you need to have a human resources policy that dignifies the civil
and create the conditions for better performance on the part of officials. Second
Instead, it is necessary to incorporate a set of programs to improve efficiency and changes
the quality of care received by citizens. Finally, create mechanisms
enhance transparency.

Human resources policy
• Focus on a single body of the tasks of selection, admission and induction
civil servants. Through proper planning of resource needs
human state, will proceed to the selection year, income, and induction
most qualified staff to meet those needs through a single
unit for the task. The aim is to reduce the disparity of views
in the entrance ways to public employment and reduce the risks of clientelism
and politicization. The principle that citizens should be more qualified fulfilled
which performs the function. As established by the Constitution of the Republic "The
official is for function and not for the official function. " Must also
centrally ensure compliance with quotas for specific groups.
• Standardization of competition system. The competitions for promotions will
preceded by preparatory courses mandatory. The integrated approval notice
assess the merits. Thus, the contests cease to be only one
authorization to compete, to become a tool for the
professionalization of the civil service.
• Reorganization of the administrative career. It is necessary to simplify the structure
functional and hierarchical, reducing the number of ranks, titles and types
labor relationship. Needless to unify the names and gradually reduce the
large wage differences that now exist between similar charges but located
in different organisms.
• horizontal administrative career. Officials should not only take chances
Disabled "vertical", but also "horizontal". That must be enabled
opportunity to compete for positions that become vacant, not only within subsection
or organ to which they belong, but throughout the State, including autonomous entities and
Decentralized Services. This reform, which requires law, expand opportunities
promotion of officials and operate as a stimulus to overcome.
• Recognition of fair productivity. The remuneration of public employees
You must include two components: a base salary must be equal for each level
in the hierarchy, regardless of where functions are performed, and
linked to an additional individual and group productivity in meeting
goals and objectives. It is necessary to extend the use of individual performance indicators
and group. These measures would not only be promoting the work of each
official but promoting cooperation and teamwork. It is also
these indicators need to be established and implemented by a single unit
with national jurisdiction, with the advice of the offices involved, as
to avoid biases of various kinds.
• Strengthening of ENAP. The National School of Public Administration (ENAP,
under the National Civil Service Office) should be strengthened and modernized,
adapting to the different needs of the Public Administration for a
improved performance and dignifying the role of officials.
• Training in the workplace. Ongoing training is becoming more
necessary to achieve efficiency in management and staff development
officials. The development of new technologies can generate forms
Asynchronous training in the workplace, to complement the actions more
traditional training of human resources. An officer can be trained
without leaving their jobs. This adaptation to the possibilities

each official will allow the use of any downtime and
will open new opportunities for improvement.
• Decrease in positions of trust and "seconded". The total number of these
charges should be reduced, as a way to reduce the risk of politicization of the
public and as a requirement for more professional management function.
They can only stay in the Ministries, OPP and ONSC. Processes
designation of these positions should be restored the principle of suitability. In all
Where should publish the designated curriculum, along with the decree or
appointment resolution. The senior management of the execution units
They will be provided by open competition, with the same formalities established for
the income of the state officials.
• Humanization of public service. In recent years there has seen a deterioration
climate of coexistence and loss of incentives for good performance of the task.
To reverse this process two types of action are needed. First,
you need to provide all officials locative amenities, the
work materials and training required for the performance of their duties.
The deterioration of the physical environment and the lack of adequate guidance undermine the
welfare and motivation. Secondly, it is essential to take steps to
prevent ideological persecution and different forms of harassment. Given the
slowness and complexity of the usual administrative procedures, examine the
Figure possibility of creating an ombudsman officer. We need to generate
an environment more friendly work, respect between people and to the function.
• Regulation of the grounds of ineptitude. The inability to perform a
task under the Constitution of the Republic as grounds for dismissal, is
something different from the inability and failure. There are cases of officials
have no disability or omission incur functional duties,
but they are not able to perform the task assigned to them. Prior to
set them measures contained in the Statute Officer should proceed
a redistribution. This would result in greater benefits for the state and for the
own work.
Policy improving the quality and efficiency
• Incorporation of obligations to the OPP on budgets. Time-frames
peremptory, short and binding on the OPP is issued on budget
public enterprises. The absence of such a term makes companies work
the budget of the previous year (which is automatically extended) and have
difficulties in implementing the investment budget to be conditional on
approval of the Financial Program.

• Creation of an Internal Audit System of Government Management. Monitoring
of budget execution will be done through independent auditing units,
complement existing and bound by the same methodology
of work. Those responsible for these units will report to the highest level
Administration and will provide information at the request of legislators and
units or services. Thus there will be elements of reliable judgment
process to monitor, correct deviations in relation to the targets
and be responsive in real time to any impairment (see section
"Economic policy" in a truly productive country).

• Quality certification. It will aim to introduce quality certification processes
throughout the public administration as a way to optimize management and generate
a quality culture among staff. The quality improvement should include from
very special quality user relations.
• Unification of purchases. As a way to lower costs and reduce risk
irregularities, progress toward a unified procurement system will deepen
public. In accordance with the provisions of TOCAF, agreements will be established
frame with suppliers and uniform supply contracts (like the
successful program "Chile buys", who pioneered in the region). Development
technology allows the various state bodies involved in a system
centralized, creating their own "shopping cart" computer. in this way
you can combine autonomy in decisions with the benefits of buying
Unified. The whole process will be permanent and concomitant intervention
the Court of Auditors.
• Rationalization of bureaucratic structure. The hierarchical structure should be common
Administration for all, except in special situations and based on criteria
rational. It should functionally justified the amount of organizational units
each agency, as well as the number of staff within them.
• Removing obsolete and combat units duplication of services. In the
state structure some units and services were created to persist
ends that society no longer pursues or revised. Also there
duplication and overlap in terms of roles and responsibilities. With the purpose of
reduce costs, improve service to users and make more fluid operation
Administration, these situations should be regularized.
• Crossing efforts to simplify data. The state does not require users
and any document in his possession. Current technology enables centralized
information and make it accessible to different services. Thus it is possible, by
example, gather all the data for a person that are relevant
for the conduct of proceedings before the State (birth, citizenship, address,
marital status, name changes or sexual orientation, birth of children, sanctions
for misdemeanors or crimes). Under these conditions, the user can perform the procedure that
need without having to provide supporting documentation, for example, games
birth. It will reach to complete a form via the Internet and pay fees or
timbres that match (which can also be done electronically).
• Intensive use of technology to improve customer service. The citizens
They may make arrangements from home, from mobile equipment or facilities
audiences will be especially targeted at the most vulnerable population
terms of access and understanding of information (for which he will endow between
others assistive technology). Through this mechanism, users will
to access all procedures are underway before the State (each
identified with a tracking number) as well as learn about requirements
and procedures for initiating others. To facilitate communication with users,
It will implement a Base Architectural Uniform State websites and
a set of rules and guidelines for the drafting of emerging documents
Administration that must be applied by all services. When there is a
design and organization of information that is common, users will
less difficulty finding the information they need, in a virtual environment

they will be familiar. It will aim to provide different methods of navigation and
Search, so that each user choose it more friendly.
• "Silence positive." In all cases that do not require constitutional reform,
will step through legal means to the installation of "positive silence" for the citizen
("Confirmatory tacit" instead of "tacit rejection" as it exists today). The silence
fictas negative or denying put citizens in a position of
inferiority against the State. The gradual establishment of "positive silence" in the
administrative procedures (given the complexities of each sector)
will contribute to put the citizen at the center of attention. Negligence, negligence or fraud
the officer who stopped beating deadlines will be evaluated through research
administrative and / or summary. If damages occur to the State, be
you can recover repeating against those responsible.
Policy of strengthening transparency and accountability
The principle of transparency is constitutional root in our country, and lies
enshrined in legislation, the application is now quite imperfect.
To move forward on the path towards greater transparency we intend to boost
following measures:
• Nesting Court of Auditors. Recent governments have become accustomed
to ignore the comments of the Court of Auditors, as if it were an organ
of little relevance. This attitude of respect little control mechanisms
It is possible because there is a problem of institutional design: Observations on the
body have no inhibitory effects. The Court is limited to inform the Legislature
or departmental boards, but a political majority can decide to ignore.
Our aim is to reverse this situation. The first step will give more publicity
to the Court's decisions, so that citizens can form their
own opinion about the performance of the different leaders of the State. The second
step will be the creation, in the orbit of the Presidency of the Republic, a
Monitoring Unit will study the Court's observations to the effects of
inform the Executive. This may use the powers granted by
Article 197 of the Constitution to make observations or suspend acts.
• Strengthening the Administrative Court. The TCA should expedite
management and cease to function as a single instance. That will promote
Courts and eventually creating Courts of Appeal with jurisdiction
annulment. These courts may be established or move to different
parts of the country as a way to promote accessibility and decentralization.
The dispute will also be promoted through arbitration awards
executives.
• specialized cameras. The possibility of creating specialized cameras will be analyzed
within the scope of the Supreme Court and the Court for Contentious
Administrative. For the latter analyze, for example, the possibility of
create a specialized chamber in tax issues as a way of giving guarantees
to ensure fair trial for both the taxpayer and the DGI.
• Strengthening and URSEA URSEC. These two control units
Large utilities have been weakened by the last two governments. They
It has produced the phenomenon called "regulatory capture by the government." Is
necessary to reverse this process, aligning the operation of these units

•

•

•

•

•

international best practices, which indicate an institutional design based on the
functional and organic independence and neutrality in political management.
We intend to relocate the URSEA and URSEC in the organizational chart,
eliminating their subordination to the executive and strengthening their autonomy
(See sections "Energy" and "Telecommunications" in a country truly
productive).
Control of the "parallel state". During the frentistas governments were created close
fifty commercial companies and trusts that manage money
public but operate under private law. These entities invest,
contract, and appoint managers spend bypassing controls Court
Auditors or properly inform the public. Transparency does not exist and the
Tampering risk is very high. Therefore we propose to review and repeal
the legislation is allowing override and compliance
of administration. We also want to review the rules governing firm
agreements with the National Development Corporation. The escape from the law
Administrative towards private law may become an indirect way
to do what is prohibited directly.
Bid tracking units. all parties will be invited to
parliamentary representation to integrate equipment monitoring processes
bidding, you will have access to all procedures, from the preparation
of the sheets to the opening, allocation and execution. The purpose is to ensure
transparency and accountability in real time.
Citizen control. Today there is a worldwide trend to encourage participation
citizen in the external control of the management of public monies. Us
We propose to move forward in that direction. For that we will promote activation
mechanisms for citizen complaint with the Court of Auditors, which must assess
eventual foundation and proceed accordingly. It will also create a log
National Public Supervision acting, which serve as new technologies
to make information available to citizens and different
instruments to facilitate better interpretation and management. Access to Blog
It can be done from home, from mobile user devices, or from
public schools.
Access to public information. The Law on Access to Public Information was a
advance, but it is not being implemented properly. Not infrequently there
arrears, or the information is delivered incomplete. At the same time the State
Delivery to private information that should not be toast confidential.
We intend to enforce the law and make improvements accordingly to provide
more security and transparency for citizens.
Requests for information from lawmakers. It has become customary for orders
Reports of legislators go unanswered or are answered so
delay becomes outdated information. For this reason we propose that
considered serious misconduct lack of response to a request for information within the
deadline set by Law 17,673. Under Article 199 of the Constitution,
Ministers will attend Parliament to give explanations on the case.

DECENTRALIZATION
Uruguay is one of the most centralized countries in Latin America. The capital brings to 40
percent of the population within 60 percent. However, according to the Office
National Civil Registry, 53 percent of state employees serving
in Montevideo. The national government, the vast majority of universities
and the main centers of cultural activity are concentrated in the capital. Although
a growing proportion of economic activity takes place within the
average household income of residents in Montevideo is $ 52,069 and
Interior residents is $ 39,024 (data corresponding to the Continuous Survey
2013 households).
This reality is not yesterday or the last ten years. It is an old trend
historical, always he fought against the National Party. But its manifestations
they change over time.
The current difficulties
• The creation of a third tier of government has been progress, but there is
a set of intentions rather than a reality able to modify the dynamics
operation. The absence of budget items to be executed in that
level becomes mayors in institutionally weak figures, to be carried out
a huge investment of personal energy for achievements in their communities.
• Educational decentralization has taken some important steps, such as
strengthening the Northern Regional University of the Republic, creating
UTEC or new forms of educational support provided by the Plan
Ceibal. However, progress is far below the making
Possible technological development and tertiary education options (even adding
public and private) efforts remain well below those of Montevideo.
• Also indicators of educational achievement are very unequally distributed. A
boy living in the rural interior is 7 times less likely to complete the
Baccalaureate by a resident in the capital.
• The National Integrated Health System shows its worst deficits in the interior.
Many local communities lack essential services. Other feature
qualified staff, equipment and infrastructure, but bureaucratic blockages
prevent an integrated use of all these resources for the benefit of
users.
• The increasing insecurity in rural areas and cattle rustling has become a
scourge. Although the police to combat groups are present in all
departments (BEPRA), the actual capacity of response is very uneven.
• Increased production activity, intensification of traffic and the growing
use of "cross" routes (as routes 14, 26 or 31) have led the network
Road to a point near collapse. The responsiveness has been far
very poor. The traditional division between domestic routes by the MTOP and
local routes by regional governments is proving inefficient.
Besides generating coordination problems, raises the risk of politicizing the
decisions because it gives the opportunity to prioritize the "friendly municipalities".


Our vision: a fair and efficient decentralization
Uruguay is not a mere accumulation of regions, but a unity that extends our
It defines our history and identity. For that reason, no real development of the country
if there is no development throughout its territory. Decentralization is an act of justice, because
It means equal chances of overcoming all Uruguayans, without the place
of origin is a barrier to access to opportunities. And decentralization is also
a commitment to efficiency, by means of better use of resources and
complementarities.
Our proposals
The set of proposals aimed at strengthening decentralization in order
four different levels. At the first level they are located proposals to be implemented in the
Interior as a whole. The second level is that of the regions, understood as the meeting
various departments to achieve certain ends. The third will be the governments
department. The fourth is the local government.
Measures to be promoted within the country as a whole
The overall objective is to promote growth and harmonious development of the country, driving
policies that generate changes throughout the territory. Among them they are:
• Policies and measures aimed at increasing the productive potential of the interior. Some
Examples are:
* Increase the stops to deduct VAT for the purchase of oil production and
freight up to 100%.
* Lower rate IMEBA up to 20% for small and medium producers
affected by this tax.
* Eliminate up to 100% of VAT on diesel consumed by the farm.
* Establish oil import quotas, according to the parity prices
import prices to average.
* Allow liquidate quarterly tax credits for VAT on diesel and allow
use 50% of their value, for the purchase of fuel.
* Encourage entrepreneurship biomass energy, photovoltaic and
micro-hydro, while the wind continues to plan. Remove limitation
MWh price "spot" to stimulate local private generation.
* Exploit hydraulic capabilities, extending the full potential of
generation on the Black River and other waterways advantage having
potential.
* Allow the generation and transmission from an area to another, paying UTE
only by the transmission rates that depend on the voltages (today,
any private generator is forced to eat on the premises or sell UTE).
* Promote self-generation in rural settlements, promoting
incorporating irrigation pumps or small photovoltaic power
generators (for all the above measures, see the "Power" on A
truly productive) country.
* Generate strategic plans for agriculture, as today is the
sheep category.
* Reframe the Agricultural Plan, guiding the farm and group counseling
small producers.

* Reframe the Institute of Colonization, incorporating new patterns of work and
an incentive system that encourages innovation and productivity.
* Promote the development of remote technologies for land management.
* Incorporate the theme of the family business as a type of productive unit
faces specific challenges to be resolved (for all the above measures,
see the "Agro" on a truly productive country).
• Policies and measures to promote the movement of goods and people.
Some examples are:
* Promote the river and rail transport for the movement of loads.
* To approve the 2015-2020 Strategic Plan for Road Infrastructure, which integrates
the national budget and whose implementation is the responsibility of the Ministry of
Transport and Public Works. The immediate objective of the Plan is to ensure the
rapid recovery of the routes, with special emphasis on the 50
"Bottlenecks" that are hampering the transport of goods and people.
Then we will proceed to a reformulation of the road network, establishing corridors
primary and secondary mobilization of loads by road. It will
special priority to the "cross" routes.
* Inclusion in the Strategic Plan of the concept of "domestic cargo terminal" nodes
Transfer where all tasks related to the mobilization will be conducted
load, including the procedures for nationalization of Goods
international operations.
* Creation by law of a National Trust for Road Infrastructure
(FFIV) that will manage resources which are provided by the sector
transportation (primarily through fuel tax) in order to
assist the State and regional governments in the development and maintenance
road infrastructure, including national highways, departmental roads and
roads.
* Concentrate recovery efforts in some railroad branch lines
have good cargo volume and ensure profitability. Articulate those branches with
Transfer nodes to be used for road transport.
* Establish a legal and operational framework to encourage the coordination and
complementation of different passenger transport services, respecting
specificity and the area of ​​each operation (for measurements above
see the "Transport and logistics" in a truly productive country).
* Modernization of road signs in a manner consistent with the reality of traffic
peri-urban and rural areas.
* Review and clarification of responsibilities of all state agencies
linked to the administration of the road system (to see these two measures
section "Road safety" in a country that cares for its people).
* Create a seal of quality tourism for use by hotels, restaurants and shops
across the country.
* Systematize and standardize the management of national tourist information.
* Apply to all service stations in the country the same refund scheme
for the payment of fuels that applies in the border service stations,
when paying with foreign credit cards (for the above measures
see the "Tourism" on a truly productive country).

• Policies and measures to strengthen ports and inland waterways.
Some examples are:
* Retake the defense of the undertakings blocked by Argentina in New
Palmira (Barranca de los Loros and liquid bulk).
* Financially support feasibility studies of Locks Project San
Antonio (Salto), which would extend 500 kilometers navigating the river
Argentina Uruguay without authorization.
* Adopt and implement a plan for the development of the port of Paysandu, which
including logistics equipment and a redesign of the access and support areas.
* Enable the Port of Juan Lacaze as a free port.
* Install a crane next generation in Fray Bentos.
* Develop the arrival of cruise ships at the Port of Cologne.
* Provide support to projects to install terminals in the Charqueada and Tacuarí,
as a way to promote the consolidation of the waterway East.
* Develop the port of La Paloma in ways that are consistent with the
tourism (only fishing boats clean and medium loads,
frequencies do not affect tourism).
* Enable the Puerto Seco de Rivera.
* Supporting and leading efforts in conjunction with the Ministry of Tourism and governments
traffic department to develop river cruise.
* Ensuring respect for the rules governing cabotage. Movements between
moorings and ports must be reserved for the national flag (for all
these measures see "Transport and logistics" of a truly productive country).
• Policies and measures to strengthen education in the interior. Some
Examples are:
* Strengthen the school system and revise alternating current methodology.
* Incorporate the rural sector directory INEFOP permanent way.
* As part of a decentralization effort, creation or increase Games
expenses, maintenance, investment and hiring additional staff,
to be administered by schools across the country, under a
ex post accountability.
* Creation of a program to develop training tools and support
teaching work in coordination with the Ceibal Plan. Software tools
They should be used in such a manner conducive to networking of teachers
perform tasks in distant places. hours will be remunerated for training and
training teachers in the use of those tools.
* English in all schools. The goal is for all students in teaching
Primary English courses receive up to A2 level. The first step will
strengthen and reorient the "Ceibal in English" program, increasing the number of
remote teachers and expanding the production of support materials. He
second step will be to increase classroom teaching, without ruling out support
electronic media. To achieve cooperation agreements will be signed with
Private English teaching institutions and organizations and
foreign governments. Also recruited volunteer teachers, after the
proper training, work in the classroom under the teacher monitoring.
* As part of the effort to develop higher education within the
country, we support the development of UTEC and promote the realization of

the Universidad del Norte, on the basis of our data existing in the
Northern Regional University of the Republic. A system of promotion and
quality assurance allow monitoring progress of decentralization
according to university standards requirement (for the above measures,
see the "Education" in a country of opportunities).
* Encourage technological distance education (e-learning) both in the field of
formal education and non-formal. Promote, in coordination with the system
ANII college and the creation of a virtual technology campus, as a way
encourage studies within the country and facilitate interaction with the sector
productive. Implement projects of mobile technology classrooms (see section
"Telecommunications" in a truly productive country).
• Policies and measures aimed at strengthening the health and social services in the
interior. Some examples are:
* Promote actions to protect health and safety in rural work,
designing specific policies for the sector.
* Run nationwide plan in health infrastructure in the term of
three years, locative and resolve equipment problems for 50% of the
public sector beds. 100% must be reached within five
years.
* Develop a national system of primary care level. Incorporate equipment
technical supervision at the departmental, regional and national levels.
* Create cardiological north IMAES Black River.
* Create a system of incentives that encourage the establishment of professional
health inside particularly in rural areas. Incentives should include
allowances (paid by uprooting), but also exemptions
tax and other benefits (eg retirement). We also need to create
good relief mechanisms and consider the life cycle of the
professionals (eg, needs associated with education of children).
* Organize a network of critical care throughout the interior, by
public-private complementarity. The network will include some points to organize
service of air transportation for medical emergencies (see section "Health and
addiction "in a country that cares for its people).
* Equating the unemployment insurance scheme for rural workers to the
General (see the "Social Security" in a country that cares for its people).
* Creation of children and women police stations across the country (see section "Security
Citizen "in a country that cares for its people).
* National implementation of the main social programs promoted by the
central government, including settlement plans and Zero Estamos Contigo (see
the "social policies" in a country of opportunities).
* Creation of a National Addiction that integrates state services
(MIDES, ANEP, municipalities) with non-governmental organizations present
in different community settings. One of its components will be
Social Observatory on Addictions (for both points, see section "Policies
Social "in a country of opportunities).
• Policies and measures to strengthen the culture and sport inside. Some
Examples are:
* Within 10 years, providing about 30 places inside equipment in

performing arts with a similar quality room Zavala Muniz.
* Create a national network of theaters using the infrastructure
wasted in many cities. Create a national network of Shows
linked to such rooms.

* Provide the SODRE of a decentralization policy (for these measures, see the
section "Culture" in a country of opportunities).
* Promote the organization of student competitions to inter-institutional level,
departmental and national.
Measures to be promoted at the regional level
• Create regional agencies as new dimension of interdepartmental cooperation,
primarily aimed at developing productive development plans.
• ASSE Regionalize transferring facilities, resources and decision making.
Attach the new regional units to departmental governments involved.
• Promote the organization of regional events, promoted simultaneously
several provincial governments (see the "Culture" in a country
opportunities).
• To deepen the process of concentration of the Departmental Police Schools
in a smaller set of Regional Schools (see section "Security
Citizen "in a country that cares for its people).
• Develop a National Water Policy to be formulated in terms of
watershed protection (see "Environment" in a country that cares for your
people).
• Implement a permanent monitoring system of quality of reserves
and waterways, to identify vulnerabilities and build capacity
Early response to pollution episodes (see section "Environment"
In a country that cares for its people).
• Develop measures of regional coordination for shared basins
our neighbors, particularly the Uruguay River and the Río de la Plata.
• Promote the creation of another regional headquarters ISEF in the Southwest since
today are in Montevideo, Maldonado and Paysandu (see section
"Citizen Security" in a country that cares for its people).
Measures to encourage departmental level
• Associate the national government to provincial governments, "federalizing"
tasks and projects.
• Creation of a national fund for strengthening institutions edilicio
education, which include the possibility of agreements with provincial governments
and MTOP.
• Strengthening Technology Centers in Primary Education
department as a way to encourage the incorporation of technologies to work
pedagogical. Creating Technology Centers that provide simultaneous support for schools,
colleges and technical schools.
• Creation of agricultural Baccalaureate distance as a way to facilitate the retention
family in rural areas. This new Bachelor combine the use of technology
to provide distance education classroom actions. The program
organize in coordination with departmental governments and include a system

•

•

•
•
•

•
•

•

•

of incentives for local producers to participate in financing the
costs (for the three previous steps, see the "Culture" in a country
opportunities).
Functionally integrate existing health services in each department,
linking rural areas, towns, departmental hospitals and centers
regional or national benchmarks. They must have the necessary logging,
written, validated and socialized to all stakeholders, including algorithms attention
and coverage of shipments (see the "Health and Addictions" in a country that cares
his people).
Reorganizing the territorial deployment of the police, taking into account the density of
people from different areas (urban, sub-urban, rural) and features
of criminal activity (see the "Public Safety" section in a country that cares
his people).
Deepen the process begun with the adoption of Law No. 18.126, regulated
by Decree 217/007, decentralization and coordination of agricultural policies
with departmental basis.
Adaptation of national legislation to the requirements of traffic safety.
Introducing a bill to create the Courts and Traffic Inspector
Transit Department.
Expanded coverage of mobile emergency routes and national roads, and
either by extending the agreements with mobile emergency or preparation
local resource for first responders in route (see section "Security
Vial "in a country that cares for its people).
In agreement between national authorities and regional governments,
recover and equip sports spaces that are in disrepair, and assign
priority of use to schools and colleges nearby during school hours.
Creating a network of sports complexes comprehensively attend to athletes
elite. The network will be composed of the Celeste High Performance Centre (CECAR) and
some centers located across the country. To put them in a position
It will work in coordination with departmental governments. The network will in
common the same methodology and a core advisory team. The
elite athletes may attend any of the venues, or switch
including, without losing a common framework (see the "Sports" in a country
to care for your people).
Develop a joint plan between the MEC Cultural Tourism, the Ministry of Tourism
and various state governments, which bet to promote cultural tourism
in Uruguay, both in its domestic tourism as its oriented version
foreign. Cultural tourism programs will be articulated on the calendar
festivities and will aim to link the history, cultural heritage and geography
circuits that include museums, both public spaces and urban cultural centers
as private. In these scenarios events will be developed to suit the
history and characteristics of each site. A special type of tourism
ethnotourism culture is built on dialogue with cultural and natural heritage
which refers to ancestral character spaces, mainly the indigenous world and
colonial.
Create a national network of support for tourism infrastructure, providing a framework to
coordinated work of the Ministry of Tourism and the provincial governments. Is

•
•

•
•

•
•

network should channel loans and subsidies for the restoration and maintenance of
tourist attractions, as well as to establish common standards and controls
quality (see "Travel" on a truly productive country).
Strengthening environmental units of departmental governments,
tool genuine decentralization of environmental management.
Coordinate with relevant departmental governments, and MVOTMA
with MTOP to ensure logistical support and tax incentives to make
possible the realization of different programs ecosystem restoration
degraded (see section "Environment" in a country that cares for its people).
In coordination with regional governments and the MTOP, standardization
safety standards for construction of junctions, interchanges, steps
pedestrian, access roads to parking lots, etc.
In coordination with regional governments, develop a national program
only to train aspiring to obtain the license. The program
It will include normative contents, first aid items, knowledge
mechanics and criteria defensive driving.
Incentives for regional governments to install traffic lights in the doors
schools and colleges, in order of priority defined by history
accidents.
In cooperation between the MSP and the departmental governments, creating units
department of rehabilitation of victims of traffic accidents reduced
the need to transfer to Montevideo. While each department may decide
is appropriate or not outsourcing of services, protocols are defined
and minimum standards to be met throughout the country (see section "Security
Vial "in a country that cares for its people).

Measures to boost the local level
• Generation of legal instruments that promote various forms of association and
collaboration between municipalities.
• Encourage the establishment in rural areas by promoting community development
local productive and cooperative associations. There are many successful models
internationally, including the figure of the kibbutz.
• Training community workers, using local resources (eg,
rural) police to attend emergencies and work to
distance from health professionals.
• In coordination with national and regional authorities, Implement
sanitary rounds with diagnostic technologies (see the "Health and Addictions"
In a country that cares for its people).
• In coordination with the regional authorities, reorganize the deployment
police to better combat cattle rustling. BEPRA strengthen and create new
instruments (see the "Security" section in a country that cares for its people).

FOREIGN POLICY
Despite its small size, Uruguay managed to gain a place in the world as a
respectful of the international legal order and true to the principles that sustain the country

civilized understanding between nations. Several generations of jurists and diplomats
Uruguayan assured us this prestigious seat.
The governments of the Frente Amplio have endangered the tradition built during
decades. Rather than developing a foreign policy anchored on a broad consensus
multiparty developed a foreign policy game. Instead of defending channels
institutional, they tried to establish international relations on alleged affinities
ideological. Instead of relying on professional diplomacy, they tried handled
political operators. Instead of remaining faithful to democratic principles and
They state law partners approached dubious political credentials, such as the
Chavez regime.
The result is that today we have a foreign policy less professional, less credible and
less respected. To this weakening of our foreign trade, which adds
analyzed is a genuinely productive country.
The present challenges
• In the course of our foreign service frentistas government it underwent a process
of deskilling. The "presidential diplomacy" replaced diplomacy
professional, whose natural home is Chancellery. The direct and constant participation
President of the Republic, the unprecedented multiplication of ambassadors
"Political" (as opposed to "career") and creation, also unprecedented
numerous charges of "roving ambassador" had the effect of shifting set
professionals diplomacy design and implementation of foreign policy.
• The frentistas governments also broke another national tradition, which consisted
to have a foreign policy founded on broad multiparty agreements. During
Uruguayan governments long assumed that foreign policy should be
a true state policy with national sense. For example, the entry
Mercosur was not unilaterally decided by the government of the National Party
time, but all parties represented in parliament was convened
to take a joint decision. The frentistas administrations, however,
They chose to pursue a policy with its own color. Since the return to democracy
in 1985, he had never seen the foreign policy of a government is rejected
in Parliament by all opposition parties.
• As a result of all this, the country had an erratic and confused foreign policy.
The diplomacy based on national interests and the principles of law
He was replaced by international diplomacy "ideological affinities". Is
bet did not work in the government of Tabare Vazquez (who had rough relations
with the government of Nestor Kirchner without receiving any support from Brazil) nor
in the government of José Mujica (which had some initial success in the relationship with
Argentina, but then just give without getting anything in return). the years
passed without a single significant breakthrough it occurred in the relationship with
our neighbors nor in relation to performance problems Mercosur.
Neither the country managed to strengthen its position in international organizations.
• Additionally, the ideological orientation that was given to foreign service
It led us to support the unjustifiable exclusion of Paraguay Mercosur and placed
Uruguay among the few countries that gave broad support to the government of Nicholas
Maduro, at the same time that many democratic governments were felt
its concern about the loss of freedoms and increased repression in Venezuela.

Something similar happened to the conflict between Israel and the Hamas movement. In the scene
International compañados have been wrong.
Our vision: to restore the traditional principles of our foreign policy
The Uruguay should return to its traditional position of defense and promotion of the
institutionalization of international relations and respect for international law
Public. In this area, the idea that politics prevails over the law can only
disadvantages and result in damage to the weaker countries.
Consistent with this view, our foreign policy must be principles
fundamental option for a clear multilateral understandings, supporting
international legality represented by the United Nations, the awareness of a
Active membership in the Latin American Community of Nations, a vigorous policy
trade promotion and cooperation, and full respect for the principles of
International right.
We also give back to the nature of foreign policy State policy, founded
in the broadest possible agreements between the different parties represented
parliamentary.
Our proposals
Looking to the next five years the following lines of action are proposed
complementary to those presented in the "Foreign Trade" section A country
truly productive:
Foreign policy attached to the strictest respect for international law
As happened in the past, our action at the international level will adhere to the
following principles:
• The refraining from the threat or use of force against the integrity
territorial or political independence of any State, or in any other way
inconsistent with the purposes of the United Nations.
• The search for settlement of international disputes by peaceful means,
so as not to endanger international peace and security.
• The duty not to intervene in matters within the domestic jurisdiction of the
States.
• The obligation of States to cooperate with each other in accordance with the Charter of Nations
You together.
• Respect for the equal rights and self-determination of peoples.
• Adherence to the principle of sovereign equality of States.
• The fulfillment in good faith of obligations.
• The universal respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms,
promoting the elimination of all forms of discrimination based on race, religion or
gender.
Design, conduct and professional execution of foreign policy
• The President of the Republic should provide the policy guidelines
outside, but should not be the main actor in charge of running it.
• The ideological affinities must give way to consideration of the interests
medium and long term the country, as well as adherence to the principles of law

International mentioned above.
• will be convened to develop a national strategy on foreign policy dialogue with
the remaining political parties, academia and economic actors and
social, in order to regain some lines of action which are the subject
a broad national consensus.
• the number of political and roving ambassadors will be reduced, and will profile
Professional those who remain. The act of designation shall include
public and clear statement of management objectives in terms of which will be
evaluated.
• the role of Artigas Foreign Service Institute will be strengthened, promoting
partnerships with the private sector and academia.
• the selection criteria of the highest ranking diplomats to be redefined
It is sent to the representations located in countries of high priority for Uruguay.
Measures aimed to mend relations with Argentina
• Strengthen the embassy in Buenos Aires, providing it with human resources in quantity
and sufficient quality. The Embassy is less than 10 diplomats have today,
it must address all political, economic, trade, tourism issues,
cultural and cooperation. About this site also links to rest
45 concurrent embassies operating in Buenos Aires. You need one
new structure that includes a permanent support for trade negotiations
and policies.
• The ambassador to Argentina should be a person with a history up to the
responsibility will exercise, and must act according to clearly defined policies
and coordinated with the Foreign Minister. There should be a single line of action
and professionalization of the task.
• You need to design fluid channels of communication between the embassy in Buenos
Aires, members of the Uruguayan delegation to CARU and CARP (which must
be chaired by ambassadors full-time), the responsible bodies
national port management and private stakeholders most directly affected
by decisions under discussion.
Measures aimed at strengthening the position of Uruguay in the Mercosur
• Strengthening the Directorate of Integration and Foreign Ministry as MERCOSUR
Key to the negotiations with the region instrument. The Directorate has
diplomats currently with 6 "stroke" which should be responsible
all aspects relating to the negotiations in MERCOSUR,
including nearly twenty technical groups they are operating. Is
possible to strengthen this body with highly qualified staff without creating new
charges.
• Provide greater permanence to the technical teams involved in the
negotiations in the framework of Mercosur. High turnover is conspiring against us
negotiating capacity. For more stable delegations it is necessary to introduce
incentives that reward achievement of permanence and negotiating objectives.
• Strengthen bilateral relations with Paraguay, the other "guy partner" of Mercosur
we join with the growing economic ties. Our Ministry
Affairs has not given the issue the attention it deserves, mainly by

political and ideological reasons.
• While recognizing the role of a global player and its projection Brazil
International, which benefits us as a region, the relationship with our neighboring country should
It is framed in terms of bilateral and regional agreements established
within the framework of international law. Boosting border policies with a
appropriate legal framework and strengthening of the bilateral commissions,
will be key objectives in our bilateral relationship.
Impetus to multilateralism and strengthening the international position of the country
The Uruguay should strengthen their participation in international forums, both in the field
political and economic-commercial. That should strengthen their delegations
relevant agencies and step up efforts training resources
humans.
Policy links should be developed with cooperation or integration bodies
Additional Mercosur, as the Pacific Alliance (see section "Trade
Exterior "in a truly productive country).
Joint foreign policy with other policies to be promoted by the government
• Creating permanent mechanisms for coordination between the Ministry of
Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Tourism and Sports, in order to involve
embassies, consulates and business offices in promoting Uruguay as
destination (see the "Tourism" on a truly productive country).
• Coordination of foreign policy with defense policy, so as to make a
better use of Uruguay's participation in peacekeeping missions of the UN
as an instrument for strengthening the country in the international institutions.
It is this involvement that opened the possibility of aspiring to a place as a member
not standing in the United Nations Security Council.
• Coordination of foreign policy to cultural policy to favor
Uruguayan international promotion of cultural agents, promote the arrival of
cultural events in the country and encourage local development of cultural tourism (see
section "Culture" in a country of opportunities).
• For the connection between foreign policy and the productive and commercial activities, see
the "Trade" in a truly productive country.

NATIONAL DEFENSE
National defense is among the essential tasks of the state. The will of
exist as an independent and sovereign country needs to have some capacity to respond
against possible threats that may come from outside, whether assaults
from other States or the action of armed groups as linked
drug trafficking. It also corresponds to ensure defense policy protection
air and natural resources of strategic value space, especially those of
monitoring difficult as those available in the continental shelf and territorial sea. By
Finally, democracies tend to use the armed forces to events that require
great logistical deployment capacity, such as natural disasters, emergencies
sanitary or situations of internal unrest.

In accordance with the provisions of Law 18,650, the state must develop a policy
National Defence respects the general principles of domestic law and the law
International. That policy should respect in particular the principles of self-determination
peoples, preserving peace, non-interference in the internal affairs of other
nations, peaceful settlement of disputes and cooperation among States.
Defense policy must articulate with other public policies to help achieve
national objectives. For example, you can articulate foreign policy to strengthen
the country's position in the international system. Participation in missions
UN peacekeepers (usually called "blue helmets") is an example of this type of
highly beneficial for the country joint.
To have a good defense policy need to fulfill a number of tasks
high technical content. First, you need to develop a good capacity
analysis to identify the challenges, threats and opportunities posed by
international situation. Then strategic processing capacity is required, so
to define a coherent set of goals that are attainable from adequate
selection of resources. Thirdly it requires good organizational skills and
implementation in a variety of scenarios. Finally, it is necessary to develop
good mechanisms for monitoring the effectiveness and efficiency.
In a democracy, the design and execution of defense policy and its component
essential military defense policy is the result of cooperation between the military,
they are the ones who have the expertise, and the civil power that are
unconditionally subordinates. The conduct of defense policy is a task
essentially political and, therefore, subject to citizen control.
The ability of a democratic government decision on military institution includes
defining the main objectives and strategic directions, decisions
the number of troops and the purchase of equipment, promotion and retirement policies,
how to articulate defense policy with other policies (such as political
external or internal security), arbitration between different forces, the definition of
training policies and allocating resources to fulfill the tasks they
They are entrusted. The challenge of any government on military defense is giving a
adequate response to these and other questions.
Uruguay ahead the security challenges posed by the current international order,
while to identify the best ways to contribute to global stability and
regional. In addition there are some difficulties that deserve immediate attention, even if
its effects and possible resolution to project in time.
The current difficulties
• The military is facing problems recruiting and training resources
humans, due to budgetary constraints affecting wages and
training. Moreover, the image of the military profession is still affected by the
memory of the events of our recent history.
• Some irregularities and concluded in summary prosecutions have hit
also the image and morale of the military.
• The junior staff is strongly affected by social problems
afflict low-income population. The responsiveness of the
Armed forces (eg, in health) is limited. This reality has
especially visible consequences within the Republic.

• Doubts launched from the political (and especially since the party system
government) on continuity of peacekeeping missions generate uncertainty
a line of work that has become particularly important in recent years. This
It comes at a time that Uruguay has achieved international recognition
for the successful professional involvement of his "blue helmets" in the interest of peace
and security in different parts of the world.
• A part of the political and social actors still see the defense as an issue
military, rather than as a national issue. This can generate
problems in giving appropriate responses to possible threats such as
it may raise the drug or the dispute over access to natural resources.

• Vulnerabilities in military defense against some threats
potential that although they are unlikely in the short term can not be completely
discarded in a longer time horizon. These actions include
generated by violent narco or religious fundamentalism, attacks
against biological farming, cyber attacks and possible shifts
Massive population. The country must have contingency plans for these
risks that may become more likely in the medium term, as well as the
human and material resources to meet them.
• Closely related to this, the country lacks a national intelligence system
suitable, in which efficiently coordinate all dependencies
specializing in this field and are subject to effective civilian control.
Our vision: professional defense policy, realistic and citizenship
We aim to develop a policy of sustained advocacy by broad agreement
multiparty, ensuring continuity some lines above alternating
parties in the exercise of government.
This policy must be framed in the strictest respect for the legal order and the
human rights by some armed forces clearly subordinate to power
civil, as is the case since the democratic restoration.
We propose to develop a realistic policy, it gets to be effective at the regional level
and internationally under the limitations imposed by the size of the country,
availability of resources and the need to meet a variety of objectives
developing.
Also we hope that such a policy offers genuine opportunities for development
professional and human Uruguayans who choose the military profession.
We, finally, a policy of national defense and military articulated with other
public policy, so that it contributes to strengthening the international position of the country,
the protection of our population, the preservation of our natural resources and
exercise of sovereignty over the entire territory, airspace, the subsoil,
waterways, territorial waters, the continental shelf and the Exclusive Economic Zone.
Our proposals
The set of proposals to boost from the government aims generally to have
with more professional armed forces, more efficient and more technologically advanced, that
accompanying the evolution of their likely use in a resource allocation framework
responsible.
Reaching these general objectives presupposes the adoption of policies and doctrines produced

Executive level and the Ministry of National Defense, as a result of work
Council of National Defense and the General Staff of Defense.
In particular it is proposed:
Update rules
• Complement Marco National Defence Act now in force No. 18650 with other
complementary rules to govern the way future actions of the Armed Forces.
• In particular, we intend to update or develop Organic Law of the Ministry of
National Defense, an Organic Law of the Armed Forces and Intelligence Act
National.
• As a precondition for the development of living standards, it will convene a
multiparty dialogue to define the outlines of a defense policy
National for a horizon of 15 years.
Creation of the Commissioner for defense matters
• An essential part of the process of regulatory update will be to introduce the
the Parliamentary Commissioner for Defense, also called Ombudsman
for defense matters.
• The aim of this initiative is to create an instrument for conflict resolution and
ensure strict enforcement of rights in a variety of circumstances.
Including issues of social assistance systems are counted,
unjustified delays in payments, claims linked to shipments and difficulties
related to the integration of ethnic, sexual or religious minorities.
• In line with the experience developed in many countries (Germany, Spain,
Portugal, Britain, Italy, Holland, Israel, Mexico, India, New Zealand, Philippines,
Canada and the Scandinavian countries, etc.) is hoped that this figure helps a
best exercise of authority and composing situations without resorting to
disciplinary or judicial procedures that were designed to solve
other problems.
• The performance of the Commissioner for the Defence not imply any injury,
alteration, damage or lack of discipline or procedures
regulatory force.
• The Ombudsman for defense matters is an alternative solution to the mechanisms
that they exist today, such as telephone lines Minister Listen and ears. These services
allowed anonymous complaints, which deteriorates the internal discipline, opens the door to
initiatives coming from people outside the armed forces and exposed to various
risks to those involved in the chain of command. The office of the Ombudsman offers
better guarantees to all parties. The proper functioning of the institute implies that
the staff that makes use of this resource can not be reprimanded, discriminated against or
punishable by that action, but anonymous complaints or groups are not admitted.
• The figure of the Ombudsman for defense matters will be built using as
Model Law No. 17,684, which created the post of Parliamentary Commissioner for the
Prison System. It should have separate offices facilities
monitor, with specialized staff and a budget to be set by the
Parliament.

Continuity of peacekeeping missions
• The military involvement in peacekeeping missions under the terms of the Charter of the
UN is not only an opportunity for our Armed Forces
gain experience in real operations, but also for the country to strengthen
its presence in international organizations and reaffirms its traditional commitment
with the guiding principles of international law. Uruguay is a more important country
in the world thanks to their participation, which has been widely recognized and
appreciated.
• In this context, more or less recurrent doubts about the continuity of
this experience only contribute to uncertainty in organisms
Relevant international, affect the life plans of military personnel and
weaken the international position of the country. We are committed to
from the government to ensure the continuity of these experiences.
• The political participation of Uruguay in these missions should be defended
Under national interests and not be subject to the guidelines of other
countries or other international actors.
• The importance of operations under the flag of the United Nations
Armed Forces requires the development of a joint doctrine that allows
troubleshoot the national unified command for forces operating in the
same theater of operations.
Comprehensive protection of sovereignty over natural resources
• In the context of an overpopulated world where growing strategic value
access to natural resources, national defense policy must prioritize
effective and comprehensive protection of the land, subsoil and water reserves
drinking, territorial sea and airspace, as well as support for the claims
Uruguayan on the Antarctic territory.
• The training of military personnel, procurement of equipment and tasks
search and analysis should take account of this national priority.
• In this framework must be strengthened some specific lines of work, such as
logistical support to the activities carried out under the Antarctic Treaty.
• It is also necessary to strengthen the capacity for joint action by the
Armed Forces in relation to this objective, looking interoperability,
centralization of common services, standardization of equipment and the creation of
levels of education and training sets.
Development of Sea Power
• The extension of the area of ​​jurisdiction over the seabed up to 350 miles
the coast will increase from 80,000 to 100,000 sq km
State jurisdiction, which means a huge increase in possibilities
exploration and exploitation of natural resources. A priority promote studies
scientists that allow sustainable use of these resources in the
funds and create conditions for their effective protection under the
international law.
• a significant investment will be needed in the coming years to ensure care
the environment, safeguarding human life at sea, protection of
offshore installations and associated movement of ships. We are committed to

allocate a percentage of fees charged to the companies involved in the operation
resource incorporating naval means for the protection, defense
and research, in line with international best practices.
• The multiplicity of public institutions responsible for issues
the sea reduces the effectiveness and efficiency. You need to define a state policy that
to coordinate policies related to the management of living resources
and non-living, exploration and exploitation of the seabed, the subsoil, the transport
commercial shipping and logistics chain associated, scientific research, care
the environment, the development of port infrastructure and security. He
objective of the policy is the best use of statehood
coastal and the extraordinary possibilities that present ocean spaces,
river and lake for sustainable development of our country and welfare
their habitants
Other measures to boost government during the period
• Measures will be taken to strengthen the training, increasing
resources for the Military Lyceum and promoting a policy of academic partnerships
to strengthen military training institutes and graduate.
• the National Center for Higher Studies (CALEN) will be promoted as a tool
Professionals for civil and military spheres are trained and interact in
defense issues. The aim is to make better use of
available resources and knowledge society and give the state orbit from a
overcoming the paradigm that considers defense as an exclusive subject of
military.
• whether to transfer activities carried out will be evaluated on the orbit
the military to civilian, for example, the National Directorate of Civil Aviation and
Aviation Infrastructure (see section about "Transport and logistics" in A
truly productive) country.
• Efforts will be made in favor of strengthening military health, including
developing highly specialized medical and professional activities
combined with other areas of public health.
• National Emergency System will be strengthened through actions such as
public awareness, joint training between institutions
linked to emergency care, the provision of resources potentially
necessary and formulating contingency plans.
• National Search and Rescue System will be strengthened.
• access to decent housing by the junior staff will be encouraged,
promoting its incorporation into the overall plans to be developed in this
ground (see the "Social Policy" in a country of opportunities).
• building a national intelligence system is I drive aimed at
produce strategic intelligence of State, on the basis of joint
existing bodies under the direction of a civil authority.
• participation in international treaties and forums will be evaluated for the purpose
to maximize the protection of our national interests, without prevail
considerations of political and ideological nature which may limit the adoption of
most beneficial courses of action.

HUMAN RIGHTS
Strict respect for human rights is the basic condition for a
civilized coexistence. We are deeply committed to this cause,
and we understand that the rule of law is the main instrument to defend it. The
protection of human rights has no political color and is not owned by anyone. At
specific case of Uruguay, is a common heritage that defines us as
nation. The differences that may arise between us refer to the best mode for carrying
that commitment to the field of concrete practices. And on this level we have differences
so by the last two governments.
The current deficiencies
• The action of recent governments has expressed a biased view of
•	human rights. For example, they have not been considered in due importance
the rights of those who are victims of insecurity. We disagree with
this vision. That import rights are the rights of all. Do not count
political opinion or social origin of those who suffer the abuse. So we care
ensuring the guarantees of due process to those who commit crimes, but also
protect life, limb and property of honest citizens. Do not
We accepted a hemiplegic vision of rights. There is only true respect for
human rights when the rights of all are protected.
• Another feature of the frontage governments has been a declarative approach to
issue of human rights. We believe that the protection of rights
not only it has to do with what it says but what it does. If not improves
security prisons if not reform, if assistive technology that is not incorporated
promotes the inclusion of people with disabilities, the best statements
picture you get turned into a dead letter. Also in this area, quality
management is essential. Only by being effective and efficient we can ensure
effective protection of the rights of all Uruguayans.
• In addition, the frentistas governments have applied a double standard,
according to human rights violations are committed within or outside the
country. Within borders they have been very strict, at least in violations
rights committed in the past. But at the same time they have developed relationships
a rapist fraternal human rights regime like Cuba, and
They have given their support to the repressive policies of the government of Venezuela. We
we believe that human rights are worth both inside and outside the country. By
That will promote a foreign policy aligned with the same principles as
we will apply to domestic politics. Human rights can not be subject to
political or commercial transactions.
• Finally, the vision of the Broad Front government reduces the question of good
government to the issue of "rights agenda". We believe that
agenda is very important, but not sufficient in itself. Respect for rights
it is a condition for civilized coexistence, but not enough to ensure
high quality of living. A society can be respectful of the rights
fundamental and simultaneously be a society that is very hard to live. A
every person can see their rights respected while living in the most
complete solitude or lose the meaning of their own existence. We defend

a more ambitious vision that identifies with the "ethics of care". Ethics
careful not contradict the ethics of rights, but wants to go further. Of course
we are gifted persons of equal dignity, so that our rights
and freedoms must be respected. But we are also vulnerable and
interdependent, so that we may be affected by our own
decisions, decisions of others and by the context. The ethics of care
and tries to see that vulnerable social side of our existence without infringing
our individual autonomy. This is not to build stifling paternalism, but
to ensure the conditions in which we can all try to live a happy life
and full. Without this concern, the breastplate of rights may become empty
frost.

Our vision: a holistic conception of rights under an ethic of
care
We promise to be strictly respectful of the rule of law as the way
more effective to extend the basic guarantees to all members of society.
We never accept that politics takes precedence over the legal.
We also pledge to go beyond the declarative, making our respect
rights in government decisions that effectively protect populations
violated or at risk of it.
We also pledge to extend the respect of all political rights
to be promoted by the government, including foreign policy. We especially
committed to advancing the cause of rights throughout Latin America and the Caribbean.
We intend ultimately to articulate our actions in defense of rights
cultivating an ethic of care that go beyond strict compliance with guarantees
institutional. We will strive to create the conditions so that everyone can
search and build your happiness.
Government actions that are part of a comprehensive strategy of defense
rights
Our strategy is not to have a specific policy to protect rights
humans, but in moving that concern all policies promoted by the
government. Some of the measures that will be promoted on a priority are:
Measures to strengthen the respect and exercise of rights in vulnerable areas
• Creating and Citizenship Integration Centers in vulnerable areas, which will be
integrated territorial network and will support the different interventions
made from the state and society (see the "Social policies" on A
land of opportunity).
• Support for strengthening the judiciary and creating new centers
Mediation and Conciliation Courts (see the "Public safety" on A
country that cares for its people).
• Development of new experiences of local mediation, in coordination with the
departmental governments and MIDES (see the "Public safety" on A
country that cares for its people).
• Development in the field of judiciary, new mechanisms of justice
restorative, prioritizing installation in vulnerable areas (see section "Security

citizen "in a country that cares for its people).
• Reset nationwide police stations of women and children (see section "Security
citizen "in a country that cares for its people).
• Creation of national courts specializing in domestic violence, and
increasing the number of existing in Montevideo.
Measures for effective protection of the rights of vulnerable populations
• Effective implementation of the entrance fee to the public service for the population
African descent.
• containment program for elementary and secondary education that are
discrimination or harassment come from non-traditional family units
(See "Education Policy" In a country of opportunities section).
• Effective enactment of Law 18,651 which creates the Personal Assistant
for dependents, by creating a National System
Care Unit (see the "Social Security" in a country that cares for
their people).
• Strengthen BPS Health Services for the care of patients
diseases or congenital malformations, in coordination with providers
SNIS public and private (see the "Social Security" in a country that cares
his people).
• Development of a public policy on rare diseases, creating advances in
regulatory framework for detection and treatment (see section "Health and Addictions"
In a country that cares for its people).
• Reducing demands on the family unit to access the disability pension
in the case of non-severe disabilities (see the "Social Security" on A
country that cares for its people).
• Inclusion in the social security system today excluded groups. For instance,
will include prisoners involved in production activities, complementing the
pension contribution with a contribution to the compensation fund for victims of violent crime
(See the "Social Security" in a country that cares for its people).
• Program protection and support to people with disabilities. It will aim
centralize and enhance the countervailing and stimulus measures to that
population (see the "social policy" in a country of opportunities).
• Effective implementation of the entrance fee to the public service for people
with disabilities.
• Development of a set of measures to ensure inclusion in education
people with disabilities. Including sign language and incorporate reading
Braille as optional subjects in the curriculum, and design
a program of tax cuts for the purchase of software and technology
assistive (see "Education Policy" In a country of opportunities section).
• Technical support to people with disabilities. All websites
State must respect international standards for access of persons
with disabilities. Automation projects will be encouraged and promoted
the participation of people with disabilities in research and
new product development and adaptation of existing ones. We commit
to waive the tariff on the import of automation people
with different capabilities (see the "Telecommunications" in a country

truly productive).
• Installing audio devices at traffic lights, to facilitate the crossing of not
seers (see the "Road Safety" in a country that cares for its people).
• Applying the principles of Universal Design and Usability to redesign
existing public spaces. Application mandatory for all space
Public-created (see the "Social Policy" in a country of opportunities).
• In coordination with the Ministry of Social Development, MVOTMA and departmental governments,
development of an accessible guide to cities be applied in a decentralized
(See the "Road Safety" in a country that cares for its people).
• Creation of a biennial award to the most accessible community (see section
"Road safety" in a country that cares for its people).
• different Sports Program. It will consist of a set of targeted actions
people with disabilities, partly deepen initiatives
ongoing and in part will add new options. Accompanying
It will be delivered by multidisciplinary teams that include education teachers
physical, medical and advanced students of both professions (see section
"Sports" in a country that cares for its people).
• day centers for the elderly. These centers will function as spaces
containment and care for seniors who suffer various forms of
helplessness. Each center will have a permanent team of professionals
They work in coordination, as well as people in the community who may
join a voluntary or paid. The day centers may incorporate
home care programs (see the "social policies" in a country
opportunities).
• Sports Program for seniors. It will address the physical needs and
recreation of the elderly, in order to promote their personal wellbeing and
their social integration. The actions will be developed in coordination with the Ministry of Social Development,
Grandmothers in particular through the program and day centers for senior
age. Accompanying the elderly will be in charge of equipment
multidisciplinary including physical education teachers, doctors and students
advanced both professions (see the "Sports" in a country that cares for
their people).
• Program support for victims of domestic violence. centers will be created
assistance where the victim or person at risk is treated for
multidisciplinary team. This does not mean increasing resources but better
use of existing, interlocking both services MIDES,
as the departmental governments and civil society organizations
civil working in the area. It will also create temporary shelters for victims
domestic violence, or strengthen existing ones. Be placed on the network
different entry points complaints (departmental governments, MIDES,
headquarters, sectional, specialized courts) to ensure better care and
reduce the risks of re-victimization (see the "social policies" in a country
opportunities).
• Creation of the National Registry of Domestic Violence Injunctions.
It will fully protect victims and to verify compliance with the
action by the aggressors.
• Program support to victims of sexual exploitation, violence and child trade.

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

The system will operate in an integrated manner, following the same logic proposed
for victims of domestic violence: networking of the inlet
complaints, comprehensive care for victims, support mechanisms
personal and family for transit to a situation that ensures the rights,
tougher penalties and greater control by the specialized agencies
(See the "social policies" in a country of opportunities section).
Creating a National Addictions Network that integrates state services
(MIDES, ANEP, departmental governments) with NGOs
present in different community settings. Network used as support points
Centers Integration and Citizenship. One of its components will be
Social Observatory on Addictions (see section "Health and Addictions" in a country
to care for your people).
Program for rehabilitation of people addicted to the consumption of cocaine base, monitoring
rehabilitated and support the family. The program will have three components.
First, a set of actions aimed at early detection of
consumers, that is, before the family breakup. A second component
public and private inpatient detoxification centers, funded by capitation
FONASA. Third, post-admission monitoring, which plays a central role
an adult who, with the consent of the patient, assumes the role of mentoring and support.
The tutor will receive support and frame from state institutions or
private present in the area (see section "Health and Addictions" in a country that
watch your people).
Responsible Fatherhood program aimed at improving the care of children born
Critical social contexts, from pregnancy until the third year of life. He
set of actions to include routines for disease control, development
specific food programs (run in conjunction with INDA), the
reformulation of the system of family baskets and awareness campaigns.
the effect was especially cater to encourage the involvement and
responsibility of the biological parents, or failing of current partners
mothers (see the "social policy" in a country of opportunities).
To protect the rights of future generations, creation
new offenses to protect environmental values, with the consequent
strengthening of judicial specialization and prosecutors (see
section "Environment" in a country that cares for its people).
To protect the rights of future generations, creating
Restoration networks to return the healthy state ecosystems and landscapes
degraded by involving government agencies, private companies and
civil society organizations (see the "Environment" section in a country
watch your people).
To protect the rights of future generations, creation
tax incentives for companies to introduce the use of clean energy,
resource reuse, recycling and other environmental protection practices
(See "Environment" in a country that cares for its people).
To protect the rights of future generations, development
a National Water Policy that includes a permanent monitoring system
quality of the resource, in order to identify vulnerabilities and build capacity
Early response to pollution episodes.

Measures to ensure a respectful state action rights
• Development of protocols to situations that police officers face
more frequently. The logging makes more predictable performance of the
police (avoiding mistakes and excesses) while giving police personnel safety
they will not face unexpected problems as a result of their decisions.
Protocols should be developed in consultation with the judiciary and various actors
social (see the "Public safety" in a country that cares for its people).
• Modification of the Prison Law to conform to current conditions
system. Creation of the National Prison Institute and Agency
Interior Ministry (see the "Public safety" in a country that cares
his people).
• Effective separation of the prison population by type of offense, seriousness of the
penalties and degree of danger (see the "public safety" in a country
watch your people).
• Creating microcárceles oriented vocational training, reintegration in the
formal education and reform through labor (see section "Security
citizen "in a country that cares for its people).
• Creating self-sustaining agricultural colonies to be co-managed by the
jailed. These experiences lead to low hazard and processed
will promote the integration of the family. It is proposed to organize some projects
pilot, calling the Parole Board and imprisoned, and others
civil society (see the "Public safety" in a country that cares for your
people).
• training and monitoring program for police personnel manager
contact with the prison population (see the "Public safety" on A
country that cares for its people).
• "Silence positive." In all cases that do not require constitutional reform,
will step through legal means to the installation of "positive silence" in favor of the citizen.
The negative silence or denials fictas relegate citizens and place them in
a position of inferiority against the State. The gradual establishment of "silence
positive "in administrative procedures (taking into account the complexities
each sector) will help to put the citizen at the center of attention (see section
"Public Administration and transparency" A proud of its institutions) country.
• the ability to create specialized chambers within the scope of the Supreme be analyzed
Court of Justice and the Court of Administrative Litigation. Especially,
the possibility of creating in the field of specialist TCA will be discussed in camera
tax matters (see the "Public Administration and transparency" in a country
proud of its institutions).
• Boosting bill Recognition for Freedom of Thought and Ideology,
Presented by Luis Lacalle Pou on 14 December 2010. In this way would
solution to the demands of the 7th Day Adventists and Orthodox Jews in relation to
respect for their religious precept days, Jehovah's Witnesses in their conflicts
by several orders of consciousness, the religions in their dilemma afroumbandas
with the implicit awareness of organ donation and Christians in the field of
bioethics.
• Creation of a Permanent Observatory on Respect for International Law,
In order to comply with Article 2 of the American Convention on Human Rights,

commanding adopt domestic right to effective respect for
proclaimed rights and freedoms. The Observatory can function as unit
direct advice to the President of the Republic, or added functions
within the National Institute of Human Rights.
• Absolute respect of the independence of the judiciary and full support for the work
justice in the investigation of cases of disappearances.

Government Agenda
National Party featured
the contributions of the
technicians following:



ENVIRONMENT

LIC. DANIELA INNAMORATO, ING. ALIM. ANTONELLA GOYENECHE, JULY Ing.Agr SOUVIÉ FINKBEIN,
DR. GUSTAVO JUAN NAGY Breitenstein ESC. CAIRO GABRIELA MARIA PRIETO ARTURO CORREA
FALCONE, DR. RICARDO GOROSITO ZULUAGA, LIC. MARTIN APPRATTO, ING. DANIEL Sztern, LIC.
PAUL LEITES Granzella, DR. ANDREW SUPERVIELLE, LIC. VILA LAURA HILL, ING. ENRIQUE NEME,
ING. ARMANDO Coirolo, ING. AGRONOMIST RIET CORREA WILSON AMARAL, IGNACIO ARHANCET
RIVERO, LIC. CLAUDIA ELIZONDO, LIC. HORACIO SOARES DE LIMA.


NATIONAL DEFENSE

JAMES COATES Rovira, CNEL. (R) DOS SANTOS FERNANDO BARRIOS, CNEL. (R) LUIS MA. AUGUST
Bessonart, Maria del Rosario Rodriguez Cuitiño, CARDOSO HECTOR, CNEL (ING.) FELIX
NET Eduardo Cardozo, LIC. Charquero ALMA CRISTINA CRUZ, DANIEL LOCATTELLI PAGLIARO,
CARLOS P. PACHE GELABERTA OF URUGUAY, CNEL. CARLOS DELGADO, HERNES F. RODRIGUEZ,
LUIS ALEJANDRO PEREZ SCHWARTZBOLD, MARCELINO CAPDEVIELLE, Jose Ernesto Aguiar
MIRABALLES, NADIA ALMEIDA, Umberto NICOLETTI, FERNANDO CALVETE, MARIA BEATRIZ OTERO
Cornu, LUIS ALFREDO DE SOUZA PEREIRA, CARLA PAOLA AMICONE CALOCA Gaston LARIAU,
DANIEL OLMEDO SERGIO FERNANDEZ RICO, HEBER CAPPI MENCHACA YURI GRAMAJO, CNEL (AV)
ALVARO RODRIGUEZ, ANTONIO RUBEN ALVARIZA Abella, CARLOS DIAZ ALEJO MOUSSAMPÉS, JUAN
PAUL PETRAGLIA Aramburu


SPORT

PROF. JOSE LUIS BRINGA, HERNÁN NAVASCUÉS, ANDRES ECHEVERRY AGUERRE, JUAN CARLOS
Olano GIORGI JORGE PARODI ARIEL ALEJANDRO JOSE SAGASTI VILLANUSTRE Alvaro Silva ACHE,
PAUL BORSARI Brenna JUAN IGNACIO CAMPOMAR SANTAMARÍA, PEDRO JISDONIAN TAKESSIAN,
KERSTIN JOURDAN, EDISON casulo, LARREA JOSE EDUARDO BONILLA, FABIO BERNARDO RAFT
ROMERO, JUAN ANTONIO TCHADKIJIAN Juan Eduardo Ulloa, LUIS EDUARDO PIERRI Raul
GIURIA BARBOT Juan Alberto Vaccaro JULIO EDUARDO Moseguí ARISTEGUI, SAROBA AURORA,
LABAT IGNACIO ALONSO, SEBASTIAN NICOLAS WEDGE CARRETTO, SYLVIA GADEA Dutra GONZALO
FERNANDEZ, PILAR TRUJILLO, GABRIELA STYLING Bertalmio, SALOMONE ADRIANA LOPEZ, JUAN
MIGUEL BEITÓN Beron, EDGAR CESAR PANIZZA, DEBRAY DARIO SILVA PEREIRA


SETTLING ZERO

MENENDEZ WALTER CHARBONIER, GONZALO URRETA Mesanza, JORGE SUNFLOWER, Jose Gervasio
MARTINEZ DR. LEIS R. HERMANN, DR. JAVIER BARRIOS Bove ARQ. CABRERA MANUEL RODRIGUEZ,
ARQ. GABRIELA GINETTE BOAT ARMAND Hugon BERNARDINO RUIZ DANIEL AYALA, MARTIN
ALVAREZ VIDEVERRIGAIN Horacio CORVO SUGO, ALBERTO CESAR Vesperoni VACO,
LUIS PEREIRA Jorge Rodriguez Labruna, DANIEL GINESTA, Josefina Scaltritti, CLAUDIO
MELLONI, ARQ. RICARDO ZULAMIAN, LIC. DANIEL GARCIA TROVERO, ARQ. JORGE ALEJANDRO
Brune Funes ALVARO GARBARINO, MYRIAM MONTERO PINTO, CARLOS IGNACIO RODRIGUEZ
ALVAREZ, GUILLERMO Bordoli Nedor, CARIDE FERNANDO BIANCHI, Martin Fernandez AZPIROZ,
RODRIGO JIMENEZ GERARDO MIRANDA GARCIA, CAROLINA REYES HORNES, GUSTAVO JAVIER
BARRIOS SALA EDUARDO JORGE OLIVELLA, ING. MIGUEL Váczy.



TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS

ULYSSES ESTEBAN ESCOBAR GARCIA, SERGIO HECTOR LETTIERI SERVERA, DR. JUAN JOSE CAMERA,
ING. Jose Diaz Cerfoglio, ING. Ramon Diaz, ALEJANDRO SCIARRA, AGEITOS MONICA LINK
DANIEL Labruna CEITER LUIS ENRIQUE LUCAS DANIEL UALDE RIGAMONTI, FARAL VIERA FELIPE,
SUSANA GALLI, GEORGE HOWARD Rovira POLLAK Jose Pedro Varela, ING. FEDERICO FARINASSO,
JUAN CARLOS CATEPÓN Carbajal OLAZÁBAL ALVARO FRANCISCO VALIÑAS Freitas FERNANDO
NIN RAÚL RIAL, MARIO CAMMAROTA GRILLE, RODOLFO E. LONG Galli NUNEZ SERGIO MORAES
FUENTES JUAN CARLOS CATEPÓN Carbajal, Weihs-CASTRO PABLO CARLOS ING. ALVARO
Olazabal.


INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS AND SOCIAL SECURITY

DR. MARIA LUISA ITURRALDE, RODOLFO Saldain, CARMEN MARIA FERREIRA Harreguy, CECILIA
Ituño, Dr. Darwin MACHADO, DR. JORGE A. MACLEAN, EDUARDO ALFREDO FERNANDEZ
Botti, ZENI Espath CRISTINA BLANCA, DRA. ESC. LAURA MARY AYRES LLAGUNO Juan Andres
RAMIREZ, SERGIO GUSTAVO Echeverria Alvarez, DR. IGARZA PABLO GUSTAVO FUNES, JORGE
CAMERA PERETTI, DR. Luis Jose Martinez Villalba, DRA. MIRNA Gimenez DR. EDUARDO BELTRAN,
DR. GABRIELA ROBERTI, GUILLERMO GIMENEZ Dutra, ZEBALLOS DANIEL GARCIA, LUIS HUMBERTO
LISBON FERREIRA, MARIA CECILIA Igorra DALL`ORSO Maritza VIEYTES SUQUILVIDE, VICTORIA
CORSINO, STEFANO FAZIO IRIGOYEN, MARIO ARIZTI BRUSA, FRESIA HUGO EDGARDO HERNANDEZ,
Uriarte VILLAR MARIA SOLEDAD Nicolas LINGORDO BAITX Lissy Hernandez, Fernando Pazos
PINK, Pittamiglio ECHEVERRI CARLOS HUGO ODIZZIO, LUIS ALBERTO HERRERA, DR. MARIA
ÁBALOS SOLEDAD FRANCO DR. DANIEL Turcatti.


EDUCATION

DANIEL J. CORBO LONGUEIRA, DR. PAUL LANDONI COUTURE, MPA, DR. GUILLERMO FOSSATI (PH.D)
ANA RIBEIRO, ODOLFO AURELIANO CABRAL GARCIA, CARLOS BRIGNONE Guillermo Montano,
HORACIO PINTOS, Fernando Diaz, CRAVEA MARCELO FERNANDO RUIZ, MARIA JULIA BURGUEÑO
ANGELONE, TERESA CONTI, LIC. GONZALO IRAZOQUI, PROF. YASMIN Buono, ALICIA Chirimini
ACOSTA, MARIANELLA CERIANI, Fernando Martinez Sandres, ANNA LUISA ESQUERRA Montone,
ANDREA RODRIGUEZ, Angela Sosa, Roberto Montenegro, EDUARDO PEREZ Guzzo DAVID
Telias, PROF. BEATRIZ Simoff, ROMEO ANTON PEREZ, ALVARO EDUARDO GONZALEZ GERVASIO,
ANGEL RAMOS Ritzel, ENRIQUE MARTINEZ LARRECHEA, GLORIA CANCLINI Otto, JOSÉ ALBERTO
PICÓN MARTINEZ, JUAN ANTONIO gabito Zoboli, Pablo da Silveira, Graciela Bianchi, DARIO
GRENI, MAGDALENA URIOSTE YOUNG, JOSE PEDRO DE LEON MARIANA KENNY, Maria Jose GARINO,
HELENA TAILOR ABREU, MARTINA MARIA MATTOS Arancibia FABRE MARIA VIVIANA CAMPAIGN,
ELIZABETH ZULMA BOLAZZI FABRE, FABRICIO MENDEZ TEIXEIRA, JUAN PABLO MORENO RICHIERI.


INDUSTRY

SANTIAGO CASTRO, ALFREDO OSCAR, CARLOS A. MILANS Delfino DIEGO ENRIQUE CASTAGNO
GONZALEZ, SERGIO DANIEL ARIAS LAVEGA, Mariela ANTIGA BOVIO, Tastas JUAN IGNACIO GUEVARA,
FERNANDO FONTANA GIACOSA, GUSTAVO DANIEL GONZALEZ LOZANO, SILVANA MARIA OLIVERA,
SANTORO SUSANA PECOY, URQUIZO VICTOR PABLO SILVEIRA, CARLOS A. Petrella MELGAR HEBERT
Bermudez, ALVARO CARRAU LUSSICH, ANÍBAL ABREU CASTILLO, DR. Jose Pedro ISASA, MARCELO

SOSA OSCAR ALFREDO, JULIO CANESSA, PEDRO BELLOCQ, JOSE ALEM, IRENE MOREIRA, CRISTINA
Mayr ALEJANDRA IVONNE SEA BRIDGE, MATÍAS JACKSON, CERIANI DANIEL MOREIRA, GUSTAVO
BACIGALUPI, TEC.WALTER Campanella, ING. HÉCTOR TRICOTTI, ESC. Raul Zóccola UBILLA, JOSE
DEBAT LUIS RIOS, ING. Chem. WASHINGTON DURÁN


PUBLIC HEALTH AND ADDICTIONS

SILVIA Borba, CAGIAO ALEJANDRO SOTO, DRA. VARELA PATRICIA VASQUEZ, DR. JORGE PEDOJA
Norbis, DRA. MARCELA Tornaría Alonzo DR. NEY H. GONZALEZ MARIN DR. JOSEPH E. EIZMENDI
SASSI, Julius Caesar VIGNOLO Ballesteros, DR. SEBASTIAN SARUTTE ROSELLO, DR. JUAN MANUEL
PIEGAS ARETA, PROF. DR. Esperon PERCOVICH ALEJANDRO DR. DANIEL GUSTAVO RIBERO Lavie
DR. LEONI CARLOS DR. RISI LEONARDO PARDO, DR. POVIGNA SALTRE WILLIAMS DR. Juan Alonso,
DR. JORGE gabito MIRA, CHRISTIAN MONICA Isoardi Pereyra, DRA. COLOMBO GABRIELA, DRA.
LANGENHIN PATRICIA DR. ALFREDO TOLEDO DR. MARTIN GONZALO Bazzino, SUSANA Giacobone,
PILAR SANTORO, ADEMAR SELLANES, DR. ANUAR ABISAB, DR. LEONARDO CIPRIANI Abreo, DANIEL
VILLALBA Lopez, Joaquin BAZZANO, ALFREDO M. Ubillos ALDAYA, DR. EDGARDO MIER, VERÓNICA
FERNÁNDEZ SALINAS., LUCIA CAPDEVILLE RIUS, MARCELO MORALES, MARÍA MERCEDES CHIARINO
GOMEZ, JOSÉ ENRIQUE Charquero, GUSTAVO GAYE FREITAS, Alicia Fernandez Fernandez,
BERNARDI JORGE PARODI, Uriarte VILLAR MARIA SOLEDAD, NELSON GERARDO LOPEZ Secchi,
Umpierrez AUGUSTO FERREIRA, ANTONIO LUIS BREMBILLA STODUTI, GUILLERMO GASTON PARIETTI
HERNANDEZ, JUAN MANUEL BARRIOS, SHIRLEY DEVITA, BRIGITTE FERRARO Lauria, FERNANDO
MOTTA, ANÍBAL DANIEL Dutra da Silveira, MARY CAROL AVIAGA, CR. REGINA BROWN, DR. MALVINA
REVETRIA, DR. GUSTAVO Bogliaccini.


VETERINARY AGRONOMIST

GONZALO CIBILS, ING. AGR, MARCELO CASSOLA PEREZUTTI, CORNELIUS LUIS MARIA DOS SANTOS,
DR.GASTON Cossia, CASSOLA PEREZUTTI MARCELO, MARCELO FERNANDO RUIZ CRAVEA, GERARDO
PAUL APUD VANINI, CARLOS Amonte, DRA Madelon IRAZABAL, RUBEN DARIO LOPEZ ALVAREZ,
DR. SERGIO DIAZ RAMIRO TECHERA, ROBERT M. CAL JOHNSTON, CARLOS ENRIQUE CABALLERO
SANDER, JOSÉ MIGUEL PIAGGIO MAZZARA, GIL ANDRES RODRIGUEZ DOMINGO, REMO DI LEONARDI
LIEGHIO, LACUAGUE MARIA LAURA PEREZ ALDO LUIS BORRÁS Aiello Mauber OLVEIRA, ALBERTO
IGLESIAS E. LONG, CARLOS ALONZO Perdomo Jose Eugenio VALLARINO Bernardi ARMANDO
Calderini, ING. EXPECTED JULY FOLLE, JOSE ENRIQUE CLARAMUNT ZAPRISA, ING. MARIO ROBA,
SEBASTIAN DA SILVA, CARRASCO PABLO GONZALEZ FEDERICO MORIXE MAILHOS, JUAN IGNACIO
BUFFA CAVALLERO, Jose Rosendo REBOLLO GARCIA, MANUEL LUSSICH, RUPERTO Maria Ortega,
JOAQUIN ZABALETA STIRLING, CONRADO FERBER Artagaveytia, DANIEL SUAREZ DIEGO IRAZOQUI,
JUAN PABLO GUTIERREZ PUCCIO, fernada MALDONADO MARIA CICERI, HERRERO JULIAN RODRIGO
Vasconcellos, Miguel Jose Sanguinetti GALLINAL, Sanguinetti GALLINAL FRANCISCO,
JAIME JAVIER CORONEL LASCANO, MEDINA Ambrosoni, GERMAN ENRIQUE, ING. JOSE MA. NIN


ECONOMY

CR. MARCELO BACIGALUPI, CR. MARTIN DURAN MARTINEZ, CR. MAG. JORGE GUSTAVO OLAZÁBAL
Mercant, CARLOS SELHAY AICARDI, GONZALO BARONI BOCES, ANDREA FABIANA ALVAREZ
SCHWARZKOPF, Carmen Sanchez BALCARCE, LIC. ITURRALDE AGUSTIN RODRIGUEZ, CRA.ANABELA
BOSSI VELEZ, CRA. ANA BEATRIZ ABIB DOS SANTOS, CR.RUDOLF BECKER, LIC. ENRIQUE ANTÍA ADAMI,
AUGUST EXEQUIEL Chiappara, FRANCE HEBER LANZOLA, ALVARO FERNANDO SHAFFER Goldin,
GABRIEL PEREZ PENA, CR. FEDERICO CAMY, CR. MATIAS FRANCO, LUIS GUILLERMO ORTIZ PERI
Chalar PABLO DANIEL RODRIGUEZ, DR. Joaquin Suarez BOZZOLO, DR. ALEJANDRO Lafluf Martin

TAILOR Pereyra CAMPANO CAROLINA MARIN, ALEJANDRO MEGA MANNOCCI, DANIEL SUREDA, ANA
CARDOZO LAURA Hernan Bonilla, CR. NEPOMUCENO SARAVIA PESCE, CR. FEDERICO GARCIA,
IGNACIO ESTRADA Hareau, Pablo Montaldo, Adolfo Diaz SOLSONA, ALEJANDRO RIBEIRO, CRA
MONICA SANJUAN HALTY, THOMAS GORDON-FIRING ROALD SANDBERG.


TRADE AND TOURISM

DR. GASTON GIANERO, DR. BERNARDO JUAN BARBOT ECHEGOYEN, LILIAN GRACIELA TEJERA
BELT DR. OTERO ALVARO FERNANDEZ DOMINGO, PROF. FERNANDO CABALLERO, DR JULIO
FACAL, LUIS ANTONIO CONDE BONATO, DRA. OLGA ECHEVESTE Chagas, LUIS EDUARDO CHALELA
PEREIRA, DR. APARICIO Trucido RUIZ, DR. RICARDO MORALES ESTAVILLO, DR. HEBER YELLOW
SOUZA, TELMA NIRA UBAL ACOSTA, CASTAGNO DIEGO ENRIQUE GONZALEZ, DR. DIEGO ECHEVERRÍA
CASANOVA, DR. GONZALO RAMIREZ SARAVIA, DR. HUGO WEAVER, VIERA DIEGO VERGARA, FEDERICO
Perez del Castillo, Jose Gomez Platero, REMO Monzeglio, RICHARD SHAW, HUGO CHIPARELLI
CORTELLARI, LUIS ALBERTO BORSARI Brenna DIEGO VICTORICA, VARELA MARIA FERNANDA
RODRIGUEZ


EXTERNAL RELATIONSHIPS

DANIEL Hargain, ANDREA FABIANA ALVAREZ SCHWARZKOPF Reinaldo Moreno, LIC. GABRIELA
TAMBASCO RAMOS, REBECA DRA BREINOFSJS, JOSE LUIS OSTRIA CHIAZZARO, HEBER PRIETO
Lacassie, Silvio Hernandez FRAGA Alvaro F. LORENZO, RENATO SELUJA Gamal OF KINGS,
DR. LLM CARLOS MATA, VENICE BUCETA BELT Borba, DR. GONZALO
A. LORENZO IDIARTE, LUCIANA SOURCES, DR. MIGUEL CASTELLAN, DR. EDUARDO Antonich,
Enrique Gomez Robaina LUCIA SOLEDAD NIEVAS, PAOLA B. Gatto, MARCELO MAUTE SARAVIA,
ESCUDER DIEGO LEIRA, SILVINA MARIA GARAY, JORGE REYES FERNANDEZ PAUL Labandera,
CARCABELO ALVARO ALVAREZ, RODOLFO INVERNIZZI, TRIPALDI FEDERICA DI CARLO, ANA INES
PEREZ GUIDOBONO, GONZALO CARIGNANI Mirna Bertochi, DANIEL CARDOZO, ARTURO HEBER
FULLGRAFF, GONZALO Oleggini, MARTHA ORTIZ, RAMIREZ JUAN ANDRES PACHECO, FEDERICO
PERDOMO, analaura SOTO, GABRIEL VALLONE Blandamuro, OLAVO MACHADO, ALEXANDER
SOURCES TALICE, DR. ALEJANDRO PASTORI.


SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT AND DISABILITY

AMERICO ANGEL ALVAREZ ALEGRE, MARIO ISIDRO FLAG PERG, MARISA NIELL ACOSTA ANA DE
VITA MARIA DOLORES ALVAREZ, GIACONI CARDOZO ANA CAROLINA, ANY CAREM MENDIBURU SOUZA,
QUEEN GRISEL PEREYRA GALLEGO, ESPEL RICHARD ALVAREZ, CECILIA SENA, MARICELA VIERA, DRA
LUCILA BOLLA, Paullier OLIVERA FELIPE DR. JORGE T. Bartesaghi Silveira, PROC. DIEGO
ANDREW AMARILLO DR. FAGUNDEZ MAURO DANIEL SOTO, LUIS CAVANNA, Rosanna De Olivera
MENDEZ, MACIEL MARIA DE LOS ANGELES Nunez, Monica CAMERLATI, MARIA SOLEDAD DOVAL
ALFONSO, GLORIA RODRIGUEZ SANTO, PINTOS JULIO BENITEZ, Rosana Garcia Paz, Maria Camila
AVIAGA RAMIREZ OSCAR SILVEIRA Guzzo CAROLINA VILLALBA MARTIN LEMA GUSTAVO RIVAS DE
SAINTS, ALVARO MARCELO DI LORENZO LAPIDO, Alesandra LUNA, LILIAN RODRIGUEZ, MARIA
DEL CARMEN LIESEGANG.



ADMININSTRACIÓN PUBLIC AND TRANSPARENCY

DR. CARLOS E. Delpiazzo, EC. ALBERTO Sayagués, CR. FABIÁN ROMEO, DR. Muniz HORACIO DURAND,
Fernando Martinez Sandres, MASCHWITZ ALBERTO DURAN, DR. ARIEL MOLLER, FEDERICO MATÍAS
TARATUT BARRIOS, DR. OSCAR GONZALEZ ALVAREZ ANDRES BRITO PINE ACHARD Daniella
BARDAKJIAN PENA DR. MIGUEL PEZZUTTI ECHEVERRÍA, Dapkevicius RUBEN FLORES DR. LUIS
CALABRIA FERNANDO BARRETO, SOC. MAGDALENA LORENZO, ADRIANA FALCON BARRETTO PAUL
PUPPO, DR. ARIEL SANCHEZ, DR. Diego Castro, DR. PEDRO KEROUGLIAN, MAESO RUIZ ANTONIO C.,
CARMEN Asiaín PEREIRA, AUGUSTO DURAN MARTINEZ RUBIO RODRIGO FERRÉS, KARINA GODAY,
ADRIANA MARTINEZ ARESO, Veronica SABRINA PELÁEZ IGLESIAS, GRACIELA RUOCCO, CARLOS
SCIRGALEA poppa, SUSANA LAURA PIERRI BARROS, VEGA JAVIER ALBERTO FREITAS, JOSE LUIS VERA
IZETA, VICTORIA VERGARA, NICK MARTINELLI WAKSMAN, MAURICIO DI LORENZO LAPIDO, DANIEL
LOCATTELLI PAGLIARO, INDIO AWAY Borche ALONSO, ESC. MICHELLE RODRIGUEZ, Liliana
BALBIANI BEATRIZ SUAREZ, DR. CARLOS Delpiazzo.


CULTURE AND TRADITIONAL ACTIVITIES

DR. FERNANDO BARABINO, ARQ. GISELLA Charlemagne BEATRIZ Argimon CEDEIRA, JUAN
Garicoïts FAIG FRANCISCO, MERCEDES VIGIL, Susana Rodriguez VARESE, JULY FRADE, JOSE
LUIS AZARETTO, CHINA HEBERT, Rodolfo González Rissotto, ZULLY LARA.


SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY

DR. JOSEPH A. ALEM DEACES, DR ALVARO EIRIN, CLAUDIA CROCI, BONATO LUIS ANTONIO CONDE,
RODOLFO GUSTAVO DELGADO MLYNEX, ING. JUAN PIAGGIO, ING. AGR. DANIEL PAGLIANO MSC., DR.
LUCILA PICCIÓN DA ROSA GARCIA Monica IRIBAR, ISABEL MAASSARDJIAN Aprahamian, WALTER
CIBILS RONALD MACHADO, ANDREW SCORODINSKY, ANDRES CASAL CAPRETTI PAUL WEINBERGER
CAMAÑO, GABRIEL Roizner, ALVARO LAME.


ROAD SAFETY

DR. JOSEPH A. ALEM DEACES, DR ALVARO EIRIN, CLAUDIA CROCI, BONATO LUIS ANTONIO CONDE,
RODOLFO GUSTAVO DELGADO MLYNEX, ING. JUAN PIAGGIO, ING. AGR. DANIEL PAGLIANO MSC., DR.
LUCILA PICCIÓN DA ROSA GARCIA Monica IRIBAR, ISABEL MAASSARDJIAN Aprahamian, WALTER
CIBILS RONALD MACHADO, ANDREW SCORODINSKY, ANDRES CASAL CAPRETTI PAUL WEINBERGER
CAMAÑO, GABRIEL Roizner, ALVARO LAME.


PUBLIC SECURITY

DR. DURAND DIEGO ARRAMBIDE, ANALÍA CANTONNET PEREIRA, DR. Ruben Flores, REMIGIO
PERURENA SILVERA, JULIO VIANA LAPREBENDERE Monica Váczy Rigoli, NATALIA Charquero
MARTINEZ, LASCANO ARANDA WALTER ROBERT PARRADO Dominguez, Maria Angelica
BIRTH FERRER PEDRO MENDIZABAL, MARIELA MARTINEZ Carrere Exequiel Lopez Garcia,
CNEL. Sergio Rico.
