| Independent Party

Transforming Growth
Human Development
THE ROAD
1

Transforming growth into human development |

2

| Independent Party

2014
3

Transforming growth into human development |

4

| Independent Party

THE WAY OF PI
Transforming growth
in human development

5

Transforming growth into human development |

6

| Independent Party

This way of looking
politics as a
constant incitement
the cooperation of all
in the generation of a
common citizenship
which it is characterized by
Independent Party.

There are two ways of understanding and practicing politics. One, the most common is
considered as the administration of the sovereign power of the state in society.
In this conception correspond party programs detailed, precise, where
It describes how, to reach success or share power, parties
They subscribe develop the government. It is not a wrong way to advance the
management to come, but is conditioned not only by the uncertainty
any future necessarily means, but also the limitations of a
rigid program that does not change and change its essence. The result of
the prevailing style in the history of the country is huge and recurring difference between
what was promised and what has been done after completion of the management of government.
The other way of doing politics is based on a different way of conceiving and practice:
as a collective do to produce, maintain and develop the common house
citizens. It is that activity by which we develop public life, we
the decisions that concern us all and define our future as a group. In this
If party programs are less precise and detailed because, without prejudice
Differential patterns and signs, are a standing invitation to action
addressed to all those wishing to participate in the management of public affairs. Unclosed
institutions but by opening the vivifying influence of the participation.
This way of looking at politics as a constant incitement to collaboration
all in the generation of a common citizenship is that characteristic of the Match
Independent, convinced that the old formulas in which a committee of wise
elaborated a proposal that then accompany her citizenship is not the
best way to see politics in the modern world.
This does not mean that all citizens should necessarily participate in
generating the public domain or want to, but everyone is invited
7

Transforming growth into human development |

free to do so, if that is your will. Mechanisms are provided for this
and institutional mechanisms that encourage and facilitate such participation, but
in turn remain mindful that this does not become public intervention
in a disguised form of corporatism, for the sake of interests generally
ideological ends delegitimize practiced democracy directly. This
only it can be achieved by preserving party presence in those areas
popular action.
In that sense, what we offer is expressed in our party program
a set of general guidelines and concrete proposals on different fields
our life in society. They express our convictions and our bets
country, hoping to invite the public to become active agent
the generation of the common house.
Such is the way our party sees the Republic, that is, the area where
residents seek their free individual and family realization conditions
egalitarian materials as possible, which is essential for the presence and
state collaboration. Not only for reasons of justice, but also to
effective functioning of democracy.

We have an outstanding future
A government is required
able to meet this
challenge with new ideas,
free from old prejudices
and modes of thought
inherited from the nineteenth century.

Our party believes that the Uruguay live in momentous times
its development as a nation. The transformations in the world, development
of the great underdeveloped Southeast Asian countries such as China and India and
the creation of opportunities for both regional and global integration have occurred
general conditions for the strengthening of our export economy.
The same has happened with the existence of capital flows that are located in the
country, significantly modifying its traditional investment rate relative
product. This has facilitated in the last ten years the country has attended
significant economic growth which has led us to achieve the greatest
increases in per capita income in the continent.

8

| Independent Party

Unfortunately, as discussed in the economic chapter of this program, that
Growth was not properly used by the last administrations. Are you
they should use it to generate a renewed infrastructure that would have allowed
add more work and technology products exported by modifying so
more radical the traditional structure of our production profile based on products
primary with few changes.
When external conditions both in terms of capital investments
in terms of facilities and prices of export- not seem to get the
same facilities so far, you can appraise how much the government wasted
this exceptional situation we are going through boom.
However, considering the productive momentum of the decade, Uruguay continues
conditions into the future, insofar as it complies
peremptory profound changes in its parent need, both productive and
cultural, social and labor. To do this requires a government capable of facing this challenge
new, free ideas of old prejudices and ways of thinking inherited
nineteenth century, as the following still charging.
In this sense, while economic growth has been remarkable, and so were
the decline in the rates of poverty and indigence, this improvement was not accompanied
by a process according to social integration. The Uruguay is divided socially between
a large majority aligned with the general guidelines of our culture as a nation,
built and sustained long decades of accumulation, and a minority who lives others
values ​​and ways of thinking of the majority. Therefore, this minority cultivates
different life forms with behaviors, aspirations and visions of the different future
the rest of the population. This fracture tends to widen, despite the improvement
economic, foreign largely to economic development and the very conditions
social, it poses a serious problem for the country and is the more influential factor in
insecurity from crime in which we live.

The urgent need
social policy,
educational and cultural
effective excess
this growing gap
It is transformed into a
imperative and inescapable
It is demonstrative of greater
failure of the last
governments.

The urgent need for effective social, educational and cultural policies that exceed
this growing gap becomes an inescapable imperative and demonstration
the biggest failure of recent governments. A failure which is stronger evidence
patentiza in education policy, it moves swiftly into the past and if
continues at this rate back soon be placed well ahead even of
the vareliana reform. The result is a highly elitist society with minorities
formed, culturally immersed in a town mostly unable to finish off
secondary education. The antithesis of modern democracy.
9

Transforming growth into human development |

Paradoxically, long time that Uruguay had no opportunity to
a transformer and irreversible concrete project in the path of development that
re-positioned as a leading country in the region concerning the level of development
in all its dimensions. Today this is possible.
Because you can travel another way, it is possible to move decisively towards
the recovery of a country culturally integrated, economically prosperous,
socially equitable, Republican and politically democratic and pluralistic.
Precisely, the proposal presented here is intended to be a substantial contribution in that
address.

Prioritize effort and responsibility
of ordinary citizens
Building a prosperous and united country involves claiming the importance
effort and responsibility of ordinary citizens, those who live by their
work, meet their obligations and lack specific backups that allow them
particularistic get results.
This implies that it is necessary to overcome the corporatist tendencies and locate the
Claim of particular interests within the broader framework of joint
the general interests of society.

A country of advanced
It is one in which
citizens are
adequately protected
in their rights without
need for forming
from organizations
corporate or subordinated
political favors
successive governments.

In particular, a union corporatism does not help that in the lee of legitimate
defending the interests of workers, constantly transgresses the limits
of union life to become, as an auxiliary of the ruling party,
denostando and discrediting the opposition and contributing to political segmentation
designated as one of the instigators of a political ideal of a exclusivism
class historically designated to fulfill a role of power as soon as the
sociopolitical conditions permitting. Both models are far from ideal
pluralist democratic.
By contrast, an advanced country is one in which citizens are protected
adequately in their rights without the need to belong to organizations
corporate or depend on political favors from governments.
10

| Independent Party

Pluralistic political agreements
to overcome the logic of confrontation
In the political arena we continue to cultivate other cultural dislocation that seeks to divide
the country into two roughly equal halves. On the one hand the ruling party
and his followers and the other parties that are in opposition. This dichotomy
Manichean has been a growing impoverishment of the debate and discussion
policy that prevents the possibility of broad and pluralistic understandings.
Thereby it configures a scenario of confrontation and political suspects ago
impossible to realize concerted policies that allow add more people in
common effort towards development strategies broader, permanence and
inclusiveness. What has been called state policies has been almost impossible
practice in Uruguay in recent times.
This is not to ignore the differences that make the wealth of modern life;
it is not adding to social dislocation that generates two opposing cultures, one
political separation which prevents think of ourselves as a nation, as a community
emotions, values ​​and a common political past. That historically the national ideal
country cultivated by sharing strategies, now is even facilitated
by presidentialism that governs us, so unlikely to parliamentary coalitions
that make life more developed nations both politically and socially.
In this regard, we reiterate our conviction that the introduction of a system
parliamentary significantly favor the consolidation of a political culture
founded in plural understandings and agreements. The unanimous preference
presidentialism in Latin America has not been particularly in the last
years a promoter of an inclusive political culture and consensus-building factor.

The establishment of a
parliamentary regime
favor
significantly
Consolidation
a political culture
based on agreements and
plural understandings.

Our country is ideally placed to bet on the introduction of cabinet
since it has a long-lived culture of partnership and political parties
strong and representative. Therefore this time we ratify our proposal
constitutional reform presented in July 2004, in which we proposed the
introduction of a system of parliamentary government.

eleven

Transforming growth into human development |

A proposal from
social democratic convictions
Finally, with regard to their ideological position, the Independent Party is
located in a common space shared by social democracy, certain currents
egalitarian social Christianity and liberalism, in what has also been called
social liberalism or left.
We know that the political doctrines live long crisis definition, begun
but culminated with the fall of the communist world in all its versions. Since
eighties of the last century, it may well be said that we are in
without much precision what has been called postmodernism, a characterization
successful if she understand the decline of totalizing ideologies, not
only they intended to dabble in social justice, but also advance formulas
and recipes for human self-realization in all fields, in what has come to be
called secular religions.

Government exists
and is justified by its
ability to allow
the population in the
best conditions,
the realization of their
individual aspirations.

We assist in this new century the final decline of this kind of stories, with their
ambitious claims to be unquestionable potions for happiness
men and women. Thus, political programs, if they are to comply with the limits
of democracy as a form of government should be limited to overtake roads
for better forms of coexistence within a framework of social justice, renouncing
any pronouncement on key issues, which by its very nature
evaluative existential not fall within the scope of the policy. That means the
Government exists and is justified by its ability to allow people in the
best conditions, the realization of their individual aspirations.
With these clarifications say that our conception of social democracy, according
with evidence from the contemporary world, it departs from the traditions
from historic nineteenth century, all of which pointed to socialism
North evaluative Socialization of the means of production and exchange which
it could in some vaguely defined-time, to characterize
as a regime of capitalist economy based on economic freedom but with
encouraging state intervention to correct or overcome the flaws and imperfections
market in relation to economic performance itself. Intervention
whose limits, different in every national and international situation are determined
to preserve the logic of profit that the capitalist system is founded.
12

| Independent Party

The purpose of the
Social democracy is
promote, in the strict
respect for autonomy
individually, the largest and
more equitable development
human supports
life together.

In turn, this same economic philosophy holds, as proposed, a strong
component of social justice, considering that this, together with maintaining
peace and internal and external security, is the ultimate foundations of
existence of the state. In that sense the goal of social democracy is to promote,
in the strict respect for individual autonomy, the greater and more equitable development
supports human life in common.
We believe that neither the biological nor social differences are
distinctions and particularities, although they are inevitable, justifying inequality.
In this sense there is no doubt that capitalism as an economic model is a
permanent producer of asymmetries, to punish some and reward others forms
usually unfair and unpredictable.
The history of capitalism in the fifteenth century on a permanent
reminder of their inequality. That nonetheless socialism, even in its most
humanist shaped like humana- intended release, it has emerged as
frontally incompatible with democracy and its accompanying individual freedoms,
while reduced to a mere economic model -and even if you can
implemented without constraints or limitations of the freedoms it fundamentales-
inefficient and unable to generate sustained economic growth.
For this combination of reasons social democracy, as interpreted by the Party
Independent, if it adopts the capitalist economy, considering it does good
supreme or the perfect formula for human fulfillment. On the contrary,
He is well aware of the difficulties for a fair distribution of
social production and for integrated and supportive communities.
But also, as stated, the Independent Party is clear that socialism,
or applied in an authoritarian, totalitarian terrible generating the century
XX is displayed, or becomes impossible to implement without contradicting freedom,
tolerance and the spirit of accomplishment-even in the human plane materially. From
hence the appeal to the permanent government intervention in both performance
the economic and distributive-what that along with economic freedom, it is
an unavoidable component of its economic and social model, but abandoned
definitely hope it becomes a heavy drag, that this
Such policies constitute a transitory way to the final attainment of
Whatever it is socialism that this means in terms of humana- realization.

13

Transforming growth into human development |

14

| Independent Party

I.
URUGUAY,
ECONOMY
Small open

fifteen

Transforming growth into human development |

16

| Independent Party

Uruguay is a very small economy. Small economies are takers
international rules. A simple example is the international prices
the country which conducts its business transactions and influence the allocation of
productive resources. But these rules are extended to many more dimensions.
If it is to develop a dynamic insertion in the international markets,
we need to know and go aligning with these rules. It is very important to know
what, which govern, but in what sense fundamentally change. Examples
these rules are the instruments and rules that affect trade
international standards and technical regulations, and even a variety
Regulatory traditionally domestic order that increasingly are subjected
an international discipline: public procurement policies
investment, competition policy, intellectual property, labor policies, policies
environmental, etc. Macroeconomic policies are also influenced through
context of the policies implemented by other governments. In this context, they are very
Few public policy influence on some area of ​​the economy that do not
They have an international dimension that contains them. For a small economy
International Perspective computer becomes an element that crosses all
issues that make economic and social development.
The optimum size of national jurisdiction does not grow with globalization but
It decreases. Small countries work better in a globalized world. This makes a
sense of opportunity for changes to promote. The focus should not be seeing us
as passive participants in a global transformation on which we can not
influence, but to understand the global context as an opportunity to express all
the advantages that a small country. The economic and social development remains,
even in a globalized context, a challenge with a deep national sense. The
specifically as national-international joint resolve conditions
the chances of converting opportunities into results and make insertion

Understanding the context
Overall as a
opportunity to
express all
advantages that be a
small country.

17

Transforming growth into human development |

International vehicle through which increasing levels of well-being are achieved
for citizens.

a framework is needed
institution that manages
offs between
citizens affected by
changes in context
international and
allows to generate equality
opportunities.

Uruguay, as a small open economy, is aimed at developing growth
economic in the internationalization of its economy. Le is essential to achieve
a competitive production structure and allocation of productive resources
report that efficient price signals received from the markets.
But internationalization may involve a volatility of income, hence
complementary public policies that cushion adverse effects required
citizens adversely affected. To do an institutional framework is needed
to manage tradeoffs between citizens affected by changes in context
International and that will generate equal opportunities. Policies
international integration that affect the degree of openness of trade relations
with the rest of the world often have distributional effects between
citizens. These effects mainly take the discussion of alternatives
international integration beyond the objectives of economic efficiency. To develop
international integration policies aimed at economic efficiency requires
credible institutional mechanisms to process compensation between
citizens as well as cover the costs of the associated production adjustments to a
higher level of openness.
The state's ability to play a role in the development of compensatory policies
expressed in an appropriate level and structure of public social spending-political,
education, health, security-critical and depends on the form of the ability to have
public finances that are sustainable. In addition, the state has a role in regulating
economic markets of many essential for economic development and for
information-from different reasons, require a regulatory framework technological-
specific. The financial sector and the whole range of public services are examples
clear in this direction.
An equitable distribution of income, reducing poverty levels in
context of equal opportunities for citizens are key objectives. Is
It must be clear that international integration policies can be aligned
these objectives and stress the capacity to fulfill them. That is, there may be
virtuous circles more open and less poverty or generating vicious circles
greater inequality by increasing levels of international integration. In the first
If the alternative is simple and the choice of globalization is self-reinforcing, as
that greater efficiency means less inequality and / or less poverty. In a second
18

| Independent Party

If economic openness creates more efficiency but may involve, for the
productive periods settings, more inequality and poverty; therefore, they required
complementary public policies to address effectively these other objectives.

Comparative evidence
shows that
more open economies
steadily
record spending levels
high public relation
product.

The institutional design that gives them credibility to these compensatory policies is
fundamental. Comparative evidence shows that more open economies form
recorded sustained high levels of public spending in relation to the product associated with
mechanisms of extended and profound social security. This gives ground to
a false opposition between liberalization, market integration and role of the state
the regulation of economic activity.

19

Transforming growth into human development |

1. ECONOMIC POLICIES
eleven. Macroeconomic Policies
Macroeconomic stability
Macroeconomic stability in prices and activity level are objective
since they are the fundamental pillars on which is built both development
economic and social development. Price stability means having levels
inflation in line with the economic areas to which the country hopes to close in
terms of their socio-economic performance. These are significantly lower than those
Current (8%), around average levels of the countries of the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) (3.5%) and some countries in the region,
like Chile and Peru. Stability also means that no distortions generated
misalignments relative price competitiveness with regard to price
major markets with which the country trades.

Achievements growth and investment
in a favorable context
In the last decade, the Uruguayan economy experienced a period of economic growth
unparalleled in its history, both in intensity (over 5% annually in the period 20032012) and its duration (a decade). This has been a relatively common feature
almost all of Latin America, despite the pronounced differences in policy menu
applied economic: populism of varying intensity; the center-right
leftist governments applied social democratic policies with varying degrees of
discipline in the functioning of markets. This is not to deny the successes
which undoubtedly he had the economic policy, but it is also necessary to note that it is
a boom that is also largely due to external conditions
favorable and that will, like any cyclical phase, a final, although not necessarily
critical. There are clear signs of the end of boom cycle that begin to manifest in
this year 2013. With all the uncertainties that always lies ahead, it is almost certain
the next government will find a more adverse and challenging international framework.
20

| Independent Party

Macroeconomic policy has had successes. Uruguay managed to be a prominent participant
the growth cycle of the region in a context in which most of the period
macroeconomic stability was maintained. In addition, it could reduce vulnerability
through adequate financial restructuring of the public debt. Note
that Uruguay emerged from the crisis of 2002 the brink of default and ten years later it reached
the investment grade, which enables you to access external financing conditions
very competitive. Both policies, along with no reversal in the general direction of
economic liberalization, intensified the investment process, and was particularly successful in
foreign direct investment. Employment at record levels and unemployment rates well
low, in a context of strong wage recovery, end of illustrating the performance
positive cycle of good times. Uruguay had in the early nineties, a
productive restructuring characterized by sharp contraction in sectors not
competitive, while the last decade was associated with a competitive restructuring supported
in the expansion of new export sectors. These two settings must be understood
as two stages of a process of productive restructuring of the country: the first as a
painful but inevitable adjustment; the second as the reallocation of our resources
sectors in which the country can successfully compete in international markets.

The future poses
challenge of maintaining
financial stability
when the flow of
It is reducing funds
or optionally
changes sign.

Financial stability was maintained during the period; despite the flow of capital
he received the country, the Central Bank prudential policy had its effects. The future
poses the challenge of maintaining financial stability when the flow of funds
reduce or eventually changes sign.

The problems of the future
and potential imbalances
It is also known from several problems due to the gradual and growing
weakening of macroeconomic discipline. The political context of friction
It is acting within the government, with the faction of president on one side and vice
on the other, it is the scenario in which developed this slow but continuous change
orientation. Currently associated with persistently high inflation is observed
a systematic failure of the goal. Today Uruguay is expensive against all
relevant international references (low real exchange rate). Under these conditions,
It requires a higher exchange rate, but inflation pressures that limit
possibility. He is tolerated in the years of strong economic growth inflation
high and systematically above target affects the credibility and capacity
monetary policy to reverse the competitive situation now.
21

Transforming growth into human development |

It should have been
more moderate in
spending growth
carrying out public
fiscal policy
countercyclical.

The decline in international interest rates in the recent period and improved
terms of trade in the region generate appreciation of the real exchange rate. This
explains the rise and fall of the country's competitiveness. In this context,
It should have been more moderate expansion of public spending taking
forward a counter-cyclical fiscal policy. This means that the external environment is complex
They joined the political conditions that were increasingly restricting and
conditioning the design of macroeconomic policy.
In a context of transformation in the external conditions are wasting
opportunities to continue strengthening the financial capacity. Instead, they are
using the facilities of access to international credit to relax the restriction
budget and thus lay the foundation to repeat the known problems
that they are triggered in the down cycle, when the public sector lacks the capacity
adjusting expenses and income. Notoriously public finances are weakening and
the fiscal deficit expected to continue at relatively high levels until the end of this
management-surpassing 2% of gross domestic product (GDP) -.
On fiscal policy they are also seen strong contradictions within
Broad Front government. Increasingly the prospect of having consolidated with
an auditor State and producer, which is aimed at changing the productive matrix
thus affect income distribution. Through various measures will be
consolidating a package of policy instruments with that orientation,
It is introducing numerous distortions at the microeconomic level whose real impact
It not yet has been evaluated. The protection of new ventures projects
low corporate forms socializing, expansion of public enterprises in the
when there is very little monopolistic competitive markets are movements in that
address. bath transparency is required on this set of initiatives
public in order to monitor their results before they become sources of
destabilization of public finances.
The country needs competitive private companies -under all corporate forms
the permite- law and public undertakings providing quality services, wide
coverage and at competitive prices. This requires that there is competition in the
markets, and public policies should address the preservation of this social value.
The intervention of public policy by distorting instruments -
taxes and subsidies on goods and / or factors should be carefully productivos-
justified according to the economic objectives associated more efficient allocation of
22

| Independent Party

production from a dynamic perspective. A producer and interventionist State
you spend resources (taxes collected) does not use resources functions
essential and unique above.

Government action lines
On the macroeconomic front, it is imperative to restore policy credibility
Monetary and bring inflation to international levels. For that you need:
to. Firm decision on adopting a full regime of inflation targeting, with
purpose of enhancing the credibility of the inflation targets.
b. Institutional reengineering involving the implementation of mechanisms
accountability of the Central Bank of Uruguay (BCU) in relation to
meeting the inflation target and financial stability; for instance,
through presentations in voce before the full Senate, involving
its members.
c. Strengthening of credit channels of monetary policy, giving more
depth and liquidity to the secondary market for government securities (continue the plan
of "market makers", etc.) and return to the path of de-dollarization of the
economy.
d. Using prudential reserve requirements (in local and foreign currency)
granting more power to the monetary policy.
e. Another pillar of stability is fiscal policy. In this area it is necessary to design
mechanisms for transparency and accountability in the stabilization of the
debt / GDP. Having an independent judgment that serves to balance the
fiscal excesses of government functions is relevant. For this it is recommended
the creation of an independent Fiscal Advisory Council of Experts, which meets the
functions: assessment of the structural and cyclical fiscal balance; position
Expansive fiscal policy, neutral or contractiva-; evaluating the phase of the cycle;
assessment of consequences of bills with fiscal and tax content
on the above; separation of transient and permanent part -cíclica- in
the changes. These institutional changes are restrictions on the design and
government budget execution, but they are indispensable.

It recommended the creation
an Advisory Board
Financial experts
autonomous.

2. 3

Transforming growth into human development |

Tax policy should be directed to continue the improvement in efficiency
tax administration. It is necessary to extend the experience to other agencies
collecting, and technical direction Tax Advisory & Collection, Bank
Social Welfare (ATYR-BPS) and the Directorate General of Customs (which recently
launched a modernization project). This process should be accompanied by
more developed mechanisms for coordination among these agencies. As in
For monetary policy, efficient management requires collection agencies
levels of technical independence from the executive branch.
The orientation of policy exemplifies tax administration
to illustrate the importance in the continuity of public policies by governments
of different parties. The long-term objectives are attained in the long term
They require continuity through several periods of government.
Regarding the tax-politically tax structure is properly speaking
necessary to revitalize the process of annulment or reduction of inefficient taxes.
In addition, this change must be accompanied by the gradual elimination of the exemptions
payment of charges that remain. You need to go to a few tributes structure
universal application. Ideally you have to target a tax structure based on
low taxes, ones that have tax capacity and are relatively easy
control, such as value added tax (VAT) and Excise Tax
(IMESI), and others who have an impact on income distribution according to tax
the taxpaying capacity of citizens, as tax income from
Individuals (income tax) and tax on income from economic activities (IRAE).
The last tax reform that created the income tax is oriented in this direction. Nevertheless,
This policy was also affected by the volatility in the direction that affected the current
Broad Front government.
Public spending needs to improve its efficiency. Moreover, it is the central instrument for,
through its restructuring, to start generating increasing equity in the distribution
income and fundamentally more equal opportunities in development
citizens, reducing the importance of the social sector in which they are born. The orientation
It must be at a cost that is more focused on educational policies,
Health and security. Additionally targeted social policies are needed
that can meet specific targets for vulnerable sectors of society -children
and adolescents. For it is as important as counting expenditure restructuring
with sound public finances and consistent. This issue is directly linked to
the essential reform of the State addressed in another chapter of this document.

Public spending should
improve efficiency.

24

| Independent Party

It is required to provide greater technical capacity assessment the impacts
plans and policies, both on the incentives generated as on
potential liabilities associated with them. The Office of Planning and Budget (OPP)
should resume this role, according to the objectives for which it was created, and stop
be the other economic Cabinet.
Finally, regarding the wage policy will be necessary to make adjustments
response to the change in the international environment and the consequent moderation
Economic growth will probably be observed in Uruguay. In the long term,
evolution of real wages can not be dissociated from the progress of productivity.
The current structure of collective bargaining is proving to be very difficult
incorporate the dimension of productivity in an industry perspective because the
sectoral indicators do not adequately reflect the situation of the companies. By
Moreover, the decentralized nature of wage bargaining (in large groups
and subgroups) difficult to implement policies that will lead, if the scenario
marcoeconómico the demand, a moderation of wages to privilege
maintaining the level of employment and to ensure wage gains achieved
in the last ten years. Therefore, it is imperative that the executive branch recovers
the ability to standardize agreements between unions and trade associations,
reversing the Collective Agreement Act recently passed. Without the ability
to approve the agreements, the executive branch has been left without any tool
effective to manage and influence wage bargaining.

It is imperative that
the Executive
the ability to recover
approve agreements
between unions and guilds
business.

1.2. International integration policies
The policy of international integration
as state policy
The existence of broad political consensus in the international area is useful. The phase
Domestic internalization can be guided by the consensus and contributes to
the development of state policies more permanent.
Somehow, the story from the restoration of democracy until now, is the story of
building a de facto state policy on international integration.
This policy was built on the continuity of the different governments
25

Transforming growth into human development |

There is a set of laws,
decrees and regulations
which they have contributed to the
internationalization
Uruguay.

They were happening, which in the fundamentals have not reversed the process
economic liberalization and internationalization of the economy. There is a set of laws,
decrees and regulations which have contributed to the internationalization of Uruguay and the
strengthening its international position.
In the early nineties the Mercosur, despite its current poor performance,
He played an important role in deepening trade liberalization in some
sectors of economic activity. Similarly, the internalization of the agreements
multilateral Uruguay Round in 1994 was a major milestone. In both cases, all
the political system with broad agreement signed both agreements. In addition, there was a
set of unilateral actions that encouraged productive transformation processes
designed to secure greater international integration Forest-Law, Free Zones Act,
Port Law, Investment Law, sectoral frameworks for software sector and
audiovisual-. On financial liberalization, continuity is checked
It is also a component of the world economy. In recent
Broad Front government performance stands out in terms of capacity
attract foreign direct investment, which was carried out both with the application of
the legacy and the accompanying regulatory framework, in a context of
prudent macroeconomic management that reinforced the certainty environment
rules requiring any process of productive internationalization.
While it is possible to rely on the trade agreements to promote changes in the country,
comparative experience suggests that economies that are in better condition
to access the potential benefits of such agreements are the first managed
promote change at the domestic level. Therefore, unilateral decisions are,
in the first instance, those that generate rules to specify the conditions under
reciprocal trade agreements. For example, the Uruguay itself has been active in
Restrictive investment both three tens of protection agreements
reciprocal as new generation with Chile, Mexico and the United States, and could
It is under unilaterally adopted a legal framework likely to be agreed
on a reciprocal basis. It is certainly an element that acted positively
process of attracting FDI outlined above.
Within two decades, this set of public policies aimed at
deepening international insertion of Uruguay helped to change
the production structure and the ability to generate genuine wealth in conditions
competitive. This change extends to all activities of production of goods
a sector and industrial-agricultural tradables and many services have been
26

| Independent Party

Internally it
see bottlenecks
to this development,
centered
educational sector,
domestic infrastructure
-CONVEYORS and energy
and efficiency of the State
in the development of
economic activities
monopolizing and / or
controls.

become new pillars of Uruguay's exports-at conventional sector
tourism international transport are added and called other services
trade, in particular services by enterprises. Meanwhile, in the field
internal bottlenecks are for this development, focusing on the education sector,
the -CONVEYORS domestic infrastructure and energy and efficiency of the State
the development of economic activities that monopolizes and / or controls. All these
bottlenecks are linked to changes in production are developed
more intensive use of human capital-labor higher level of calificación-,
involve increasing pressure on the country's infrastructure and services demand
efficient and competitive public.

Ability to anticipate and the situation in Mercosur
In small economies, the ability to influence international policy is
associated with its anticipatory nature, ie, forecast the direction of the paths of
change and take advantage of the greater flexibility of small economic jurisdictions
to accommodate them. As noted, it is important to know what the rules are governing, but
especially in what direction change. Small countries have small structures
institutional, so they should allocate scarce administrative and political resources.
The outlook on the direction of change also serves to prioritize the issues
to attend and have the strategic ability to decide where to focus efforts.
This is the level where the current government has the most should. He failed capacity
anticipate certain processes. He gambled more and better Mercosur when they could anticipate
I was going to be fewer and worse, regardless of what Uruguay did. He bet
and he exemplified with the founding of the new and improved bilateral relations with
Argentina and it finished in a deep crisis, with touches of comedy with setbacks
evident in many areas of the wide spectrum of economic relations and
policies between the two countries. Great achievements are announced the list of failures
-Train Free Peoples, regasification plant, dredging channels, relationships
closer political and good link between the presidents, among other achievements
anunciados-. Mercosur is in a phase of damage control and must be managed
a difficult situation, but above all we must not confuse the place of this
work on the global agenda. Uruguay now aligns with Brazil, but this
bilateralism has not given clear results so far.

27

Transforming growth into human development |

Being a neighboring country
a trade agreement
of the deepest
Brazil have is a
advantage should not be
waste.

Clearly, at a time when the world wants to come to Brazil, a country
bordering a trade agreement of the deepest that Brazil has with a third
country is an advantage that should not be wasted; therefore, it is unreasonable away
of the. This basic common sense seems to be shared across the political spectrum
Uruguayan. However, it is necessary that bilateralism bear fruit. One obvious
and urgent is to recover the capacity of the signing of agreements with third countries
without changing any appearance of preferential relations obtained so far.
Mercosur The status quo is inconsistent in this area: work and function as
an area of ​​free trade, but has restrictions associated with the operation as
customs union. There is much that asks Uruguay to Brazil; not more than
US gives Mexico equal to or greater trade concessions.
True integration is not tangle, confusion and lack of clear rules on
function block, but the opposite. Uruguay is a founding member of Mercosur,
and there has not been or probably will be another country to defend it more as project
regional integration in the Southern Cone. However, this may not prevent the
recognize realities and capabilities regarding formats liable to be applied.
Solutions to the status quo are many, but they all recognize as a starting point
it is essential to look for a change and restore the commercial freedom of the country.

Regional integration and agreements with third markets
The flow of trade agreements Uruguay has been able to conclude and bring into
full operation is very low. This should establish a warning. A
country with the level of openness of Uruguay, which depends on good performance
export and having an access to the international market so weak, it is very
exposed. International circumstances have not led to this exhibition
it is expressed as a negative restriction, but it is likely that can happen on a
the near term. Refocus the direction in this plane and make international betting
right it should be understood as a policy of insurance in relation to a sharpening
the negative aspects of the current trade and economic relations of the country.
Uruguay, despite having a flow rate of commercial agreements restricted to the region
South America, faces an agenda of dispersed and intensive negotiations. This situation
stresses the capabilities to manage effectively the international agenda and according to
a plan of national objectives. The smallness of the country is expressed in administration

28

| Independent Party

reduced government should prioritize where to allocate negotiation efforts and
implementation. In this structural difficulty is compounded by the fact that the government
Acting weakened the strategic vision regarding international insertion
Uruguay, which has been marked by volatility in the directions and signals
confusing. In particular this has been amplified in the second Front government
Wide. Such confusion not only stands as a confrontation between the government
and the opposition but whose fundamental stage the confrontation between
factions within the government -led one by the president and the other for its
vice. That is a fragmentation of views within the government verified
about what to do with trade policy, in particular with subscription
agreements.
In government, the retarding vision of President and Foreign Minister is what
has tended to predominate, influenced by a ideologized vision inexperienced
integration based on an outdated rhetoric that has been useful to cover the
interests of larger countries. In this context, Uruguay was inserted in the middle
the mess that was created in South America under the leadership of the government of Venezuela and
of its late President Hugo Chavez. That vision of integration, exclusivist and
he defined as opposed to a neoliberal course of the nineties, it is
very poor in conception and even poorer performance.

He checked a
fragmentation of visions
within government
about what to do with
trade policy,
in particular with the
Subscription agreements.

For a decade, but with more intensity in the last five years, many governments
in the region consider acceptable management of integration on this new approach,
It characterized by high discretion, in contrast to the basics
South American integration in the past decades. No agreements have changed
originating integration methodology was changed with a marked predominance
initiatives with government participation, together with management
trade as a mechanism for exchange management. Thus, it increased opacity
of the rules governing trade and the conditions were developed for the
private sector pursue artificial income generated. These circumstances
associated with higher chances of corruption in the administration of
turn and also lead to an inefficient allocation of productive resources. The
opacity of the terms of trade predominates, especially when many of the
countries (notably Argentina and Venezuela) adopt internal measures of character
eminently uncommercial as other partners in the region tolerate in silence.
Developments that are taking trade relations between Uruguay and Venezuela
It belongs to this kind of dull trade, and it is quite possible that today we are engendering
major problems for the future.
29

Transforming growth into human development |

They are retracing decades integrationist impulse and progress in South America.
In contrast to the rhetoric, the result has been the increasing fragmentation of
countries of the subcontinent. The characteristic of the new economic nationalism
populism in South America has been the main enemy of the integration process
that he had been transiting both the Andean Community and Mercosur to
Late last century. After Africa and the Near and Middle East, Latin
South is the world's regions with less intensity of intraregional trade.
This should generate an alarm not only the economic dimension of the phenomenon,
but also so that reports of political relations in the subcontinent.
The centralized, vertical and purely intergovernmental method that has characterized the
decision-making process largely explains the quality of these. The results
that were obtained are strongly influenced by the preponderance in alarming levels, the
direct diplomacy in the hands of the presidents of the countries involved in the frequent
peaks that have marked the process. Decisions of the particular stain and
exclusive vision of these political actors. Their decisions show that they know
little integration and structure, and believe that the single common will circumstantial
adopting is enough. Many recent examples illustrate this type of practice. The
mode to process Venezuela's entry to Mercosur is certainly one of them.

Economic integration,
cultural and political life is,
precisely, a path
shared, bringing together
different visions,
political perspectives
multiple, not a club
of supposed friends
ideological

In the process there are many other perspectives and actors. Integration is a technology
complex, built in long historical processes, which does not admit improvisations.
Generations of South Americans have worked persistently and permanently by
the integration of the subregion on different bases. You need back on track
historic. Economic, cultural and political integration is precisely a path
shared, bringing together different views, multiple political perspectives, not a club
Friends ideological assumptions prospects at the end of the day are of a stamp
nineteenth-century nationalist.
The facts illustrate that Uruguay is playing within the limits of what it means possible
industrial relations with third parties. In the last decade it signed a free trade agreement
with Mexico and an investment agreement with the United States deepened the agreement with
Chile two complementary subjects (government procurement and investment) would
now promoting a similar route with Colombia and Peru that it is still difficult
go under the ambiguity of Brazil on this issue. But this is not enough.
Uruguay not have access to the international market in the basket associated
its more structural comparative advantages, which must meet more deliberately and
according to a strategic program of its own relationship.
30

| Independent Party

Government action lines
In the view of the international position of the country and diagnosis are developed before
derives a set of lines of government action as detailed below:
to. In continuity with what this government has done, continue the trade bilateralism
Brazil orienting in the sense of balancing the relationship concessions Uruguay
in the regional framework with the necessary flexibility that the country needs to operate
as a small economy. For example, you need to give the option of solutions
bilateral agreement under negotiation between the EU and Mercosur.
b. Further agreements with Pacific countries of Latin America, joining
the Alliance for the Pacific. In this context, consolidating agreements with Peru and Colombia
as that Uruguay has with Chile and Mexico. Approaching the process in which part
United States in the Trans-Pacific Partnership, which brings together the countries of
Other Latin American Pacific Southeast Asia.

Further agreements
with Pacific countries
Latin America,
integrating the Alliance
for the Pacific.

c. It is necessary to maintain a multilateral activism on agreements. While
Doha Round of the World Trade Organization (WTO) is in a
impasse, it may take a new momentum in the near future. In addition, other
options for further progress in the multilateral arena. For example, it is the agreement
plurilateral within the WTO on public procurement. Should analyze whether the
internal status quo in procurement support this commitment and, if possible without
national legislation substantially stress, then I sign it. Something similar
It could be done on trade facilitation and customs procedures. In
this case should look into the country will involve signing the Kyoto Convention
on customs procedures simplification and harmonization, and if this does not serve
to strengthen the reform process already underway, as some programs
trade facilitation, Brazil and the United States in particular.
d. They should have their own agenda in relation to the OECD and promote alternative
Uruguay that begins the process of becoming an observer member of this organization.
The path of engagement with the OECD involves a set of requirements
They are useful in the one-sided view of meeting, and many of them Uruguay
and met. It generates a program desired changes and allows access
cooperation funds to address specific reforms.
e. Finally, it should prioritize all unilateral actions that involve
deepen the process of internationalization of the economy and signifying
Institutional investment in future agreements can subscribe and
involving an overall improvement in market access.
31

Transforming growth into human development |

2. PRODUCTIVE DEVELOPMENT COMPETITIVENESS
It is convenient to overcome
the noisiest aspects
the cyclical debate
in order to bring the
focus on those most
structural, strategic
and institutional.

The main objective is to build a modern and progressive society. What is
less clear is what is it. It is still something scarcely assumed for
society that wants to get away from his village stage in his search for an identity
modern, progressive and shared. Also in the construction of an agenda
convenient medium term is to overcome the noisiest aspects of the cyclical debate
in order to put the focus on those more structural, strategic and institutional.
Privileging the medium term care, the main priorities and key
obstacles, the tools to achieve them, the Allies capabilities
and organizations to obtain them. The achievements of the company are mainly
human constructions and therefore depend critically on the capacities,
ways of generating, alliances, organizations of the rules
and how we enforce and respect.
In some countries there is less crime or traffic accidents or cities
They are cleaner, not because there are more policemen, but because society is more
convinced that it is best to follow the rules. Material availability is
minor against the relevance of the human factor. Nothing more striking than
the shortcomings of our education. By the time they have invested more
resources, the worst results.
Especially need to understand what methods or processes are to achieve accomplishments
and often the major political differences are in the discrepancy
about the tools, processes, management, coordination, people and
the discipline. These issues revolve some of our greatest weaknesses. In
the most successful countries no such fierce war for the educational model or
health or employment or for international relations; however, everything flows
without conflicts and handled more subject to the administrative rules of application
automatic that politicians and casual discussions.
Essentially, the progressive society is based on a set of specific objectives
consisting especially of:
• The presence of State to address the issues under his guidance better march
and the private sector to coordinate, promote, regulate and effectively discharge
its natural functions under the general rules of democracy,
republic and the rule of law.
32

| Independent Party

• The continuous improvement of material prosperity, which should maximize
full employment and quality employment, value added and maintain stability
and low vulnerability of the economy.
• Social equity based on opportunities, strengthening the culture,
education, human capacity and diversity, but understanding that the rules
coexistence imposed on the parties. More rights with more responsibilities.
• The protection of nature and common spaces.
We are more prosperous, but that prosperity is essentially the result of
external circumstances export-prices, interest rates, greater freedom
commercial ... - that in our country, fortunately, they were better managed than in
some neighboring countries. However, because the conditions have not been created from
inside, its effects stop when the context changes. Our collective efforts
to build a society first showed little progress, at least in the
most important objectives: social integration, coexistence, health, education, security,
competitiveness, infrastructure, quality of employment, construction of chains
productive innovations that add to our more traditional chains.
There has not been a strategic program capable of simultaneously contemplate all
the partial objectives as parts of a whole. The exercise of governing it has
become a succession of casual, reactive, capricious initiatives with a
strong personal imprint. Many laws were passed and much budget is distributed,
but few innovative local initiatives based on results achieved, which
explains that have created wrong incentives that will weigh when you change the
wind. Deficiencies in human capital and organizations capable of running
new proposals are a critical factor that will attract attention.

The exercise of government
It has become a
series of initiatives
casual, reactive,
whimsical, with a
strong personal imprint.

21. Competitiveness, innovation
and trade integration into the world
A small country can not be self-sufficient in a wide variety of goods and
services. In today's world, the scale of production necessary to raise the
both efficiency in goods and services- are growing, and innovation
continues to favor its continued growth. If we protect domestic production
33

Transforming growth into human development |

and we produce in small scale production processes will be less efficient
-and / or lower wages-and consequently the material welfare will be reduced.
Locally produced goods more expensive than imported consumption and expensive
production costs, reducing the overall competitiveness of the economy. Exist
Numerous examples of the difficulties of competition on small scales manufacturing
innovations without secrets, trademarks or patents manufactured goods and wages
expensive. The world is increasingly interconnected, so that each link in the
production chains tend to be located where the greatest advantages is
competitive. Human capabilities, organization, logistics and innovation
They are the most critical skills to increase competitiveness.
In the sixties and seventies the industrial protection took us to an endemic crisis
we started to recover with trade liberalization in the mid-seventies.
Currently, our neighbors are among the most protectionist countries in the world,
so stick to its policies is a bad decision. They are large and
dominant and therefore have greater opportunities shielding. However,
maintain growth rates and modest innovation. Having high salaries
economy and low competitiveness is possible only temporarily, while
We crossed a favorable global cycle. The countries that achievements reached in the
overcoming underdevelopment implemented very open economies.
In short, protection and artificial prolongation of a situation that impoverishes us
particularly affects a small country. Mercosur has a high level of protection,
which determines who has production lines that only can be marketed
within the region. In this context, the weaker economy is the most vulnerable, which acts as
caboose, especially given the failure of the agreements by neighbors. As
the region is protected, have severe difficulties for our extra-regional trade,
which it consists almost exclusively of goods with a high component of resources
natural tourism, logistics, agriculture and future mining or oil.

Instead of favoring
the conversion of
companies that have
obsolete, is
favors continuity,
impoverishing and
making vulnerable
its workers.

The responsibility of politics is not to establish who should grow and who is not -
authoritarian tendencies that still exist in our political system;
systemically create a framework of competitiveness along with support mechanisms
business investment and high productivity. These instruments already exists,
but modest scale and executed with little coordination. Moreover, their achievements
They neutralized as a result of populist policies that provide disincentives.
As an example, rather than to support the restructuring of companies that they have been
obsolete, continuity is favored by poorer and vulnerable to its
workers.
3. 4

| Independent Party

When a string has a global destination, the possibility of achieving significant scale
It is increasing. Milk, grains, meat, wool and forest products export volumes
that would achieve significant competitive dimensions, not only in the
export product, but also in the supply chain and possibly
with less horizon in value added production of the field. Nevertheless,
although exports are important, value chains are very simple, the
Most inputs are imported and most products are exported
little added value.
If we produce pants for the domestic market, demand is saturated quickly.
If milk is produced for Asia, demand is almost endless, and will be in addition to milk
able to export all inputs and services that supply chain.

Small countries
They have no choice
for prosperity
to have economies
open systems
Cheap supply
high capacity
innovation capital
Human and organizations
very competitive.

The most prosperous countries in the world were, mostly based development
in agriculture, and from the enlargement and the increased complexity of the chains
value became prosperous and diversified countries remain
agricultural. Small countries have no alternative to the prosperity that have
open economies, cheap supply systems, capacity for innovation,
human capital and -networks organizations, chains, markets, taxes, effectiveness
State- very competitive.
In one year, productivity has not grown, but wages rose more than 20%
dollars and government spending increased 18% when the economy grew less than
4%. Imbalances have consequences as important as those brought in late
nineties, early eighties and repeatedly during the sixties and seventies.

2.2. A less vulnerable prosperity
In general, the production of commodities no barriers -at least
significant-the entry of new producers. Anyone can produce. There are
best and worst land, best and worst of human capabilities and best and worst
organizations to coordinate production and better functioning of markets.
In short, the best combinations better remunerated workforce and
natural resources, and make poor people worse. Farmers in the United States
get rich producing corn and producing Honduran peasants starve
the same. At the end of the road, all the corn will be sold at the same price. That price

35

Transforming growth into human development |

A dairy farmer in New
Zealand Wins $ 2000
and Uruguay less than
USD 1,000, occurring
both the same, that is
exports at the same price.

enrich some and impoverish others. A dairy farmer in New Zealand wins
Uruguay USD 2000 and less than USD 1000, producing both the same, that is
exports at the same price. The value chain in New Zealand is significantly
more productive than the Uruguayan. Those who produce at the lowest cost of production
may better remunerate human and natural resources, but essentially not
there are obstacles to many producers in the world capable of producing the same
in the most competitive countries.
As most of the world's food supply is produced on own
consuming countries, trade is a small part of the total supply among 10
and 15% for most of our exportables-, and as the demand is very rigid,
any variation in supply, often for climatic reasons, produces strong
price changes. In short, countries that rely on food exports
They are subject to a high volatility in revenues.
It appears that the unusual increase in food demand is
moderating and in the coming years will be a better balance between supply and
demand. Likely price levels remain high in relation to
what happened in past decades, but below 2011-2012 levels. Also,
costs have increased at rates that could only be supported by prices
extraordinary that they occurred.
The vulnerability of an economy whose exports rely mainly on
export of food is great. We know this from experience. Organized
a pro-cyclical economy with the characteristic that the high cycle do not change
the weaknesses of society through irreversible changes and during the low cycle
We walked back. Not fix or social fracture, or energy, or logistics,
neither education nor competitiveness.
The first countries give us good lessons about how to lose vulnerabilities
of the system:
to. Save in the cycles of high and low shrink in.
b. Competitive chains extend forward and backward. As a model
far away, but in the end model, the US agriculture, the most efficient
world, is just a minor appendage of the real industries that are
innovations that provide the world: genetics, transgenics, biotechnology,
36

| Independent Party

chemicals, machinery, scientific research, food, supermarket
the whole world ... The same could be said of Europe or Oceania. Unlike,
our food chains begin importing and exporting almost all
Gross. There are many lessons to learn.

Increasingly in our
country industries where
It is working with innovation
and world class are
in foreign hands.

c. Increasingly in our country, the industries where people work with innovation and
World class are in foreign hands. They are the last appendix of companies
global with its command center in Finland, USA, Brazil,
New Zealand and Germany. Hardly from those distances has interest
develop value chains in Uruguay. Those things go to them
better care to maintain a national command center initiatives;
local business community to think locally and undertake locally.
Also a government that the attack force permanently and shelter.
We spent a decade of opportunities and the command of national affairs
It extranjerizó.

2. 3. Strategic bases
productivity and competitiveness
Increase productivity and competitiveness requires putting the focus on certain elements
strategic:
to. Human capabilities. The concept includes a large, complex network
which adds the improvement of shared values, coexistence, culture, development
intellectual, education, information, social integration, vocational training and
technique. Along with this, building management systems, organizational
and institution building are the result of the sum of ratings
individual and make the capital that characterizes society. A
strong economy and low vulnerability lies more than anywhere else
wide scale of human capacities, rules and systems
implemented to ensure compliance.
b. The extension of the value chain and the evolution towards higher stages
complexity of innovation and technology and better results in terms of value
added, productivity and quality of employment; particularly in relation to the aggregate
Services: marketing, logistics, differentiation, quality certification,
37

Transforming growth into human development |

brands. You probably horizons in services than
manufacturing development, but should impose limits the markets
working the least distorted way possible.
c. A business community with good dialogue with the government. Change conflict
by cooperation. Improve confidence and incentives to spread visions
long term.

Our monopolies
determine backwardness
technology, bureaucracy and
rise.

d. Infrastructure and logistics. The first countries show notable
investment results that help reduce the cost and quality
the infrastructure-energy, communications-and transfer costs
real. Monopolies determine our technological backwardness, bureaucracy and
rise. In the period of greatest growth of grains and products
forest -mercaderías low value on the volume- occurred
greater abandonment of investments.
e. Macroeconomic policies and incentives. The economy in a society
dependent on food markets, high vulnerability, it has been
cycled deficit and surplus were not exploited to reduce
vulnerability and stabilize the economy. On the contrary, they were increased by
productivity over salaries and wages to the state of the
more organized, hindering and delaying adjustments in phases corporations
deceleration. The consequences have been that these stages were accompanied by
inflation and exchange rate appreciation.
f. The fiscal costs. Procyclically associated mode, there is a high propensity
the prevailing political and bureaucratic system to take responsibility system
public sector with declining productivity. Public-private strategies
which have postergado- or hiring private management often works better
results. Recent experience overflow the public system have shown
how levels of public administration has been ineffective and too expensive.

38

| Independent Party

3. ENERGY, TRANSPORT AND ENVIRONMENT
3.1. Infrastructure for long-term development
The infrastructure is in logistics-roads, ports, airports,
railway-, energy and electrically -combustibles energy or telecommunications,
determines the country's productivity and therefore competitiveness. It also affects the
quality of life of citizens and their development prospects and their families.
Both the costs and transportation possibilities and times of connection to the world
as the availability of energy for productive uses strongly condition
competitiveness of the country and its companies, and are especially critical elements
small country in an increasingly interconnected and globalized world. Moreover, the
access to goods and quality services to the population is increasingly associated with the
availability of energy in homes and in the different services at reasonable costs
and consistent quality and availability of logistics services that enable
transport of people and goods in short time, with certainty and appropriate cost.
In other words, the infrastructure is a key element in economic development,
competitiveness of enterprises and the country's ability to be attractive for localization
investment, but it is also essential to ensure the population quality
dignified life and commensurate with the needs of today's world.

The infrastructure is
a key element of
economic development,
competitiveness
businesses and
the ability of the country
be attractive to
localization
investments,

The theme of infrastructure should be analyzed based on two dimensions:
to. It's cost-efficiency, the possibility of improving the competitiveness of the
national economy and access for least favorecidos- sectors. This dimension
It should be considered primarily in terms expected under the
numerous contingencies affecting infrastructure issues and in particular
energy. In this regard, the security of supply availability or -that
that is, the possibility of having recourse when needed, even at higher costs,
It must be built into the cost-benefit analysis.
b. Environmental impact. This is an increasingly important dimension, given the
serious consequences that the exploitation of natural resources or
pollution will have for future generations. Development must build
intergenerational responsibility and not compromise the future of the new
39

Transforming growth into human development |

Develop a
environmental policy
with sustainability
itself, but also with
a strong political base,
seeking consensus
nationals in the
big issues.

generations for the sake of a mediate economic growth that respects the environment
ambient. It is developing an environmental policy with its own sustainability,
but also with a strong political base, seeking national consensus on
big issues that give support and direction and identify the Uruguay in the context
world as a society that grows in equality and harmony with their environment.
The optimal solution for the country must properly balance these two dimensions.
The characteristics of the goods and services to be provided are associated with a set of
aspects that require intense involvement combined with economic regulation
public. The latter must be assessed in strategic terms above.

3.2. Lines of continuity and consensus
As in the other dimensions mentioned in the program, you can identify
aspects that have been built consensus and verified progress.
First, in energy, while slowly shown in the concretion
a series of initiatives have been noted progress in terms of guidance and
projects. You can highlight the following positive elements:
to. It has encouraged an energy plan, with agreement among all parties
politicians, including the diversification of the energy matrix -incorporando
non-conventional renewable energy (NCRE), and natural gas, an ambitious
investment plan with public-private participation and also deepens the
interconnection with the power grids of neighboring countries.
b. It has driven prospecting and exploration of our soils and platform
for underwater search and eventual exploitation of hydrocarbon deposits,
which it has achieved strong interest from international leading companies
they are investing in our country at risk.
c. Contracts have been awarded and are starting or start work both
of wind farms as thermal generation plant combined cycle. They
It is in the final definition phase for the construction of a regasification plant
that will allow the country to stock up on natural gas by buying gas
liquefied natural (LNG) in different backgrounds.

40

| Independent Party

d. They have exploited opportunities in the international market for
supply of technology needed for wind machines and panels NCREs
fotovoltaicos- and has allowed us to advance the introduction of these new
sources in the energy matrix.
e. Also, the decision to incorporate the natural gas is aligned with the evolution
the international market for energy, under development in the world
the exploitation of unconventional reserves (shale gas), expanding in
recent years in the United States and Canada, among other countries. This anticipates an
constant increase in supply, or concomitantly with the fall restraint
international gas prices. The emergence of a global market for LNG
by developing liquefaction terminals and regasification and
gasíferos large vessels, it represents an auspicious development that we can
to take advantage of. In addition, LNG will be transformed into a commodity that can be
traded globally, as it is today oil, and Uruguay will be playing
in that market.
f. There have been significant investments in the fuel sector for
hand, the desulfurization plant in La Teja refinery Administration
National Fuel, Alcohol and Portland (ANCAP); on the other, investment
biofuels and the promotion of their use in transport by
Alcohols of Uruguay (ALUR), beyond the questions that we will see
ahead.
g. Finally, although problems, it could meet the power demand even in
-for periods of difficulties and lack of rainfall energy restrictions
neighbors countries, although high costs and unorthodox solutions, as
renting open cycle thermal plants.

In the network upgrade
vial has been progress,
but very minor
for a lawsuit
exponential growth
with the rise of the
agricultural exports.

Secondly, in relation to transport and logistics, they have been promoted
projects of various kinds, such as deep-water port, improving port
Nueva Palmira, rail revitalization and improvement of the national road network.
However, most of these projects have not yet reached the implementation phase.
In improving the road network there has been progress, but much smaller demand for
in exponential growth with booming agricultural exports. Development
River navigation on the Uruguay River from the establishment of UPM -Botnia-
It has been a success that can be reinforced with transporting rollers from Mbopicuá
Conchillas to Montes del Plata.
41

Transforming growth into human development |

Third, the environmental legislation in Uruguay is relatively
advanced and complete, the product of consensus among the political forces in democracy.
They include:
to. Management plans implemented soils from 2013, although
a significant delay, have been a breakthrough to control more effectively
soil erosion-a finite and strategic natural resource for Uruguay.
b. The national water policy 18.610--law is an important advance in the management
of the country's water resources in a vision for watershed management,
but it has important overlaps with other powers.

3.3. Structural problems persist
The achievements identified
they are more concentrated
programs and
projects in
results.

The first diagnosis shows that the gains are more concentrated identified
programs and projects in the results: there are difficulties management
projects, both by the slow decision-making as the problems and
unforeseen and found that the high costs of learning. This has involved
long time and significant costs for strategic projects wind-plants,
interconnection with Brazil, combined cycle plant, deepwater port, ground
regasification, among others, that are not yet operating mostly.
The problems in the energy sector due to structural issues combined
with management weaknesses and orientation of public policies. Hereinafter
-some list the main structural, management and other combinadas-:
to. High dependence on water resource in electricity generation and strong
dependence on expensive thermal solutions to diesel-park, rent
machines, electricity import price spot- and unreliable -import
electricity may not be available-years in the case of low rainfall.
Still it needs a steady supply of sources in sufficient and adequate.
b. Self-handling problems in the country, which will produce complicated tradeoffs, as
the dilemma between developing regional projects with high dependence on erratic
Mercosur policy or assume higher costs for overcapacity, which in
turn distorts future decisions-for example, by having the regasification
there will be strong pressure to use eólicos- detriment of future plans.
42

| Independent Party

c. High fuel costs to transport loads with tax scheme
criminalizing the production and transport. There is also a growing trend
the fuel consumption due to increased freight, which will involve
an imbalance in excess refinery gasoline or boost imports
oil up to now resorted to this by not having low oil content
sulfur, but hopefully the situation is reversed with desulphurization
recently.
d. The progress in the introduction of biofuels has been done through investment
a public limited company format (ALUR) controlled by ANCAP.
This structure does not generate incentives for market transparency
biofuel-what becomes a monopoly of-fact, or in fixing
ANCAP rates paid -in the facts you need to be profitably ALUR,
nor can capture private investment, and ensure operational efficiency in ALUR that
no clear accountability mechanisms accounts or the pressure of competition.
On the one hand, you may have wasted investment opportunities
private in the biofuels sector-which is also strongly linked to
agricultural sector, which has been very dynamic in this materials. On the other hand,
it is quite possible that the country is accumulating a liability to future with this initiative,
which calls for an urgent evaluation, with all the information about the
economic-financial result of this project.

It is possible that
They have wasted
opportunities
private investment in the
biofuels industry
-which it is also
strongly linked to
agricultural sector, which has
dynamic result
in this area.

e. Finally, it notes that investments in the energy sector has
running or must face in the coming years are extremely high -from
order of tens of billions of dollars over the next decade, the
which makes them particularly sensitive issue of funding and arrangements
Institutional necessary to encourage the filing of investments in the sector.
The responsiveness of the private sector plans NCRE is a sample of what is
You can be achieved in this respect and should deepen.
In the area of ​​transport and logistics the next set of problems observed:
to. Capacity constraints at the port of Montevideo, which requires investments and
rationalization. Problems impact of urban area where part of the
operational port.
b. The port of Nueva Palmira is also facing difficulties, and in particular all
issue of dredging the channel and the dispute with Argentina, which limit their
potential as door waterway.
43

Transforming growth into human development |

c. Limitations of scale to develop a viable deepwater port, which
It requires thinking on a gradual development, starting with a bulk port -
solids-liquid bulk and relatively low investment.
d. The cargo transportation sector is heavily dependent on transport
highway trucks, with heavy wear on routes and high cost due
the price of fuel (diesel).

An investment is required
strong on routes to
road transport and
infrastructure
urban line.

e. a strong investment is needed in road transport routes and
urban infrastructure according to avoid congestion and facilitate the flow of charges
to and from the ports.
The environmental dimension in the institutional structure of the country needs adjustments
to give greater importance to the management effectiveness. The current Ministry of
Housing, Spatial Planning and Environment (MVOTMA) may have been
an effective solution in the years of its creation (nineties), but taking
pressure on the environment, and future -current has lost effectiveness and is required
a more modern and specific institutions. The problems are:
to. It has not built an integrity of national environmental management. Exist
divorced policies in various executive agencies, particularly between
policies of environmental protection and production policies with an impact on
economic growth. Large infrastructure initiatives
They provide the opportunity for the development of this integrated approach, establishing
instances of mandatory coordination between various government agencies
involved.
b. The current government is implementing the National Water Policy with sum
slowness and weakness. Furthermore, it has not implemented some aspects, such as
collection of the fee for water use, to avoid facing corporate interests.
c. The current Law on Spatial Planning and Sustainable Development -not 18.308-
territorial generates a range of instruments that overlap or contradict
with other instruments of environmental management. This has generated important
uncertainties productive enterprises in their filing.

44

| Independent Party

The lack of a schema
clear institutional for
attracting investment
raising fears private
the strong recurrence
public investments
support in the tax account.

We emphasize the need as a central element of investment in the sector
infrastructure, where the lack of a clear institutional framework for attracting
private investments recurrence fears a strong public investment
support in the fiscal account, which undoubtedly will become a serious constraint on
lower economic boom years. In this sense, progress is needed to clarify
rules and economic regulation of all this sector to generate
an incentive scheme to the private sector commensurate with the challenges that increasingly
You will be facing the country.

3. 4. Lines of action
A set of priority actions identified in the energy field:
to. Electric power. New investments are needed at all stages of the process
-generation, transmission and distribution of electricity-and realize the
strong support through combined cycle plants. It is necessary to define the
wind and complementary plan to complete the process of interconnection
Brazil make it fully operational in trade flows in both directions.
Investments in electricity distribution is required until now relegated
-given reactivate the legal framework, it is publicly competition. In the same
sense should further develop biomass energy.
b. Natural gas. We must develop the project supported by regasification plant
genuine consumption and healthy governance scheme. Develop alternative uses
gas in thermal generation, transport fleets, gas exports or
electricity for use of idle capacity.
c. Continue the exploration for oil and gas.
d. Ask a dynamic scheme of financing of projects capable of
attract significant private investment, deepening it developed with
URE and extending it to other projects at centralized extra large porte
combined cycle, for example. Eventually incorporate discussion
financing of public enterprises and opening the capital market.

4. 5

Transforming growth into human development |

In the area of ​​transport infrastructure it is needed:
to. Give priority to the development of the road network by financing schemes
they can be more innovative -the breaking paid more- but require
viable and implemented within a reasonable timeframe.

The dredging channels
Uruguay is a
strategic priority.

b. Regarding the existing network of ports, dredging channels in Uruguayan is
a strategic priority. Furthermore, investments needed are improved
access and storage linked to the port of Montevideo to keep
level of regional competitiveness.
c. Regarding the new deepwater port, it is necessary to consolidate a package
loads of attractive mineral-resources area, afforestation / cellulose possible
moving oil buoy and eventually regasificadora- and improve the network
Road access for Brazil, Paraguay and Bolivia region.
d. Reform the tax scheme for fuel.
Government initiatives to boost the environmental area are:
to. Environmental institutions. The creation of a Ministry of Environment will be promoted
to unify at least the current National Directorate for Environment,
National Directorate of Land and National Directorate of Water.
This ministry has the specific task of drawing up policies in matters
-water indicated, environment and territory-and coordinate actions with others
ministries so that no antagonism or dissociation occurs between promotion
productive and environmental aspects. In her womb and political dependence of this
ministry, but with budgetary autonomy and management, the proposed creation
an Environmental Control Agency with a mainly executive role,
where actions come together to control activities in the territory and
aspects of permits and environmental permits. It will also create a level
coordination with various levels of political management of our country -
departmental governments, and local governments, promoting decentralization
actual management of the environment with redistributed budget own resources
national.
b. Land use and water protection. It is proposed to apply a corrective policy and
prevention of soil-water deterioration. On soil, deepen requirement
46

| Independent Party

plans in universal soil management and expanded form to other uses
in addition to agriculture and the strict enforcement of that
agrees that, in order to control soil erosion -a good
intergenerational and correct application of agrochemicals strictly
necessary so that then not derived by washing the rains to water
surface and groundwater.

We must move forward
in planning
environmental planning,
restricting some
activities in areas
which are water source
drinking for the population
or recharge areas
strategic aquifers.

c. In water it is required to advance environmental planning of the territory,
restricting some activities in areas that are a source of drinking water for
population or strategic areas of recharge aquifers. They must make decisions
land use, and declare some special protection areas
watersheds and recharge areas of aquifers strategic for the country, and establish
on them a selective system of production, the possibility of not using
pesticides, in order to promote the free natural production of chemicals
in the watershed. This may include the application as a tool
an intelligent state subsidy on the outperformance in a
modern state planning and state that protects private for Marco
produce under clear rules. Implement the charge for the use provisions of the law
National -Cancellation 18,610 Aguascalientes, that all users apply
-Industry water regantes- as an instrument of strict equity and generate
a fund that will invest entirely in concrete action plans for
maintain the quality and sustainability of the water source itself. Therefore,
will orchestrate differentially depending on the original watershed.

47

Transforming growth into human development |

48

| Independent Party

II.
THE CHALLENGES
SOCIAL AREA

49

Transforming growth into human development |

50

| Independent Party

Significant
welfare benefits
brindadas did not improve
social integration
of assisted.

The best social policy of the two governments of the Frente Amplio has been political
economic. Moreover, it progresses on specific social policies, although
some cases have been significant, globally can be assessed as mediocre,
below an acceptable level of efficiency. The strong emphasis on the assistance and
monetary income through wages generated considerable achievements, which are provided
necessary but not sufficient to meet the strong challenges that our country has
raised in the social area. Important brindadas no welfare benefits
improved social integration of assisted, improvements in wages not
They were associated with improvements in productivity and competitiveness of the economy.
Is relevant decrease in the number of people living in poverty and
-a indigence 12.4% and 0.5% respectively and the unemployment rate
It has fallen to a record 6%. It also highlights the increased formality
in employment and improvements in health coverage. All this was made possible by
an exceptionally favorable international context combined with a successful
economic policy and an important distribution effort. Is important to note that
these achievements have strong differences according to age and sex. The percentage of children under
18 years in poverty is twice that of other age groups, and in Montevideo
triples. The youth unemployment is four times that of older and the
women is twice that of men.
While most revenues, Uruguay remains a highly segmented society,
with limited mobility and even with very limited interaction between those
They are integrated into the modern and dynamic sector of the economy and work and
those who are not. The data show that a teen parent low
educational level and semi-skilled jobs do not even have the expectation
university studies and no access to jobs with high
compensation and therefore high productivity.
51

Transforming growth into human development |

Advances in
social indicators
They not have solid bases
So the country has suffered
an important
educational impairment.

Progress in social indicators have a solid foundation in both the
country has suffered a major educational deterioration if we analyze in relation to the
rest of the world and Latin America. The coverage of secondary education and the gap
in the quality of learning among social sectors they are among the worst in the region.
These inequalities in children and adolescents of today are a firm prognosis of
will suffer as adults and enter the labor market. We're heading to be
a society far more unequal than in the past.
We must ask ourselves about the sustainability of the progress made, the data
show that suffer from extremely fragile:
• First, because of its heavy dependence on the economic situation and consequently
international prices. They have solid underpinnings in society and not
in social policies.
• Second, its results benefit much less children, the
adolescents and young people than the rest of society, and generate them more
vulnerability to any less favorable contexts. Older
inequalities in the new generations are a forecast of a society
progressively more unequal.
• Third, because they do not contribute to improving the competitiveness and productivity
especially in the short and in the medium and long term. And if not increased
competitiveness and productivity of both the country and its different sectors
social, improving internal equity and collective welfare is not sustainable.
There is a lack of resources and incentives to improve distribution.
This paper provides a comprehensive review of the diversity policy is not made and
social programs, but it puts the focus on strategic priorities to improve
its scope and results. Such emphasis that made possible options were taken
greater depth on some issues and not involve excessive extension
document, for example, prioritize cash transfer policies
contributory and non-contributory address, or focus on education
Initial, primary and secondary than in the tertiary and university.

52

| Independent Party

1. ASSISTANCE AND PROMOTION
eleven. Status report
One of the major changes and achievements of the social policies of the two
Broad Front government was the incorporation of important components
of non-contributory welfare benefits to the structure of social policies
Uruguayan basically first through the Emergency Plan and then by
redefinition and strengthening of family allowances, which are complemented
with other support-for example, supply- minor.
The data show that, for the sectors that are in more critical condition
and more prolonged exclusion, receive financial assistance is a necessary condition
to overcome their situation, but not sufficient condition. Rigorous evaluations
several countries show that giving money to counterparties (development of
beneficiaries and especially their children) is the most effective forms of assistance
the poorest. It should be recognized that it was not easy to create a new form of
assistance with resource outside the old Uruguayan welfare apparatus,
tightly compartmentalized in the menu-health sector interventions,
education and housing as the most important ones.

The money is distributed, but
no progress was made in
effective integration
social.

The problem is that the data indicate that the money was paid, but no progress was made
the effective social integration. The fulfillment of the conditionalities in many
cases is uncertain because the mechanisms for moving information slow,
laborious and very unevenly among the various agencies should provide it.
In some of those responsible for certain paternalism require them seems to prevail that they
conviction removed when so. The problem is that those who do not continue to attend
violates an undertaking is to remove dependence dignity and generate you everything
Contrary to social policy should be achieved.
Another advance of the Frente stage was the creation of the Ministry of Social Development
(MIDES). However, as it failed to properly manage the Emergency Plan,
responsibility for family allowances was transferred to Bank forecast
Social, a body designed and organized to manage transfers
contributory (pension payments, unemployment insurance) and no non-contributory benefits,
to be managed as part of a comprehensive strategy to promote and support
53

Transforming growth into human development |

the families. The tool ran out who handled properly and MIDES
He was left without its main tool of intervention and even articulation with
other agencies involved in social policies.

1.2. Proposals
to. Keeping the Family Allowances, strengthening and improving efficiency
coupon through the components and criteria set out below.

Cash demand
compliance
counterparties care
Health and Care
education.

• Require the effective implementation of the counterparties and health care
education assistance.
• Establish a system of diminishing transfers within certain deadlines,
for families understand that they are able to compensate
stop revenue collected for this concept.
• Create a broader repertoire of conditionalities that accompany different
situations of the development process of the people; for example, complete the
documentation of all family members, perform treatment
of health problems, not just attend formal education but approve,
trained for the job, among others.
• Develop and strengthen the system of information and management of transfers
(Including coordination with other concerned agencies such as
for example education or health), so to detect the
breach of conditionalities and enables rapid issue
warnings, then interrupt transfers where appropriate and
also finally it is returned once compliance is verified.
• Improve and enhance the work done by agencies in charge of
conditionalities, such as health and education, ensuring that the support
economic opportunity and be a resource to better meet its objectives
and operating mechanisms avoiding stigmatization of beneficiaries
Family Allowances (which require, for example, identify as
such, except when strictly necessary to do so).

54

| Independent Party

Perform
accompaniment
Individualized of
Families receiving
Family Allowances.

• Conduct an individualized accompaniment of families receiving
Family Allowances, especially (i) to agree successive
conditionalities to fulfill (ii) in cases where to register their
Failure to support being overtaken and (iii) to provide information,
linking and access to various services, including those related to the
conditionalities and others who may require.
• Provide groups of exchange and mutual support to complete the transfer
with spaces of affective monetary support and guidance to
members of families (for example, groups of mothers).
b. In order to make possible the earlier proposals to entrust the conduct
and management of family allowances to the Ministry of Social Development, which
This is without prejudice to the BPS support to execute payments or other actions
in which they believe might help him.

55

Transforming growth into human development |

2. EDUCATION
21. Status report
Education is a key component in human development; factor
social mobility and boost social transformations. It is the only way
which guarantees the development of the country. You need to swerve in
educational policies of a magnitude and direction such as to make feasible to achieve in the
coming years substantial progress in educational attainment, in universalizing
coverage of secondary education in the greater efficiency of the system and, above all,
its contribution to national development.

Only 8% of the
poor students
culminates education
secondary, while
this result is 70%
among students in the
socio-economic sectors
most favored.

Uruguay live a real national tragedy. Statistical Yearbook 2011
Ministry of Education and Culture (MEC) shows that only 8% of students
poor complete secondary education, while this result is between 70%
students from more advantaged socio-economic sectors. The education system
Uruguay is characterized by displaying, for years, a high dropout rate and
lag and, in return, a low rate of expenditure in compulsory public education.
Only one in three poor students culminates three years of basic education,
while almost all students of higher economic status culminates
cycle (94.9%). But among those who remain within the education system
distribution of learning is among the most regressive in the region. Many young
They fail levels of education that would enable them to successfully continue their studies
and also many of them leave school without having developed the
basic skill levels in language and mathematics that would allow them to integrate
productively to society.

2.2. Proposals
In order to define and implement measurable goals periodically oriented
improve equity and quality of early childhood education, elementary, middle and training
teacher formulated below seven lines of action.

56

| Independent Party

to. Change the structure and functioning of government
education
• Assign the main responsibilities of education policy authorities
national bodies for consultation with the various stakeholders in the education system.
• rationalize the structure; for example, replacing multiple corporate bodies
for individual posts, which also have mechanisms for consultation
mandatory but not binding.

Strengthen and provide
the progressive autonomy
management
schools.

• Strengthen and provide progressive autonomy in the management of schools. This
decentralization involves transferring resources, skills and decision
responsibility to each center and, with different roles, their various local actors.

b. Strengthen the role of directors and management capacity
each center
This line was agreed in the multi-party agreement of 2012, but has not been met
or will to do so is observed. The evidence is that the Promejora was the only
serious and consistent strategy in this direction, but it has been reduced to a scale
testimonial. He has not even finalized the residence requirement for teachers
for at least three years in the same school. Today rotation prevents
conform teaching teams capable of carrying out local projects during deadlines
reasonable. It would seem that the rotation has become an acquired right of a
Teachers sector, which is certainly not a majority.

c. Dignity and rank the role of teachers
Many of the teachers are frustrated by their daily practice, and that
They are carried out fully, with professionalism and enthusiasm, despite achieve more
conditions, organization and operation, which all supported.
The conditions of exercise of teaching to be improved, creating work teams,
concentrate hours in a facility, improve in-service training and, of course,

57

Transforming growth into human development |

improve salaries, associating with other measures to be feasible that
investment translates into better quality of teaching and especially learning.
Dignifying means better income, better conditions and better demands
and forms of assessment. In short, we are talking about a redefinition of the
teacher contracts, which of course must be negotiated with unions, but in the
should be very clear that the initiative and the government's proposal.
In this perspective teacher training must be redefined, giving character
university, linking closely with the best academic areas
each subject area and, at the same time establishing permanent, strong joints and
dynamic, with the processes of change and daily life of the educational system.

d. Redefining the agreement between each school, their
students and their families
The data indicate that for low-income sectors of education has lost
attractiveness. Several studies show that many young people stop attending in
secondary education, even when they have strong economic incentives. Even with that
incentive course, students and their families choose to leave schools
public. Others go to private schools and the labor market or the street.
The agreement will result in the center undertakes to achieve certain results and to
trusted to get it. Students and families will know what to expect and count
the means to go and check that it is met. They can also adapt these
results to their needs, their starting points and preferences; never all
It should be an excuse for lower levels of achievement and learning.

Each school, or high school
technical school must
plan, manage
and evaluate their work
educational and management
resources.

e. Improved management of resources and infrastructure
Each school, high school or technical school must plan, manage and evaluate their work
educational and management of their resources. It must be worked towards changing allocation
teachers at each school and realize their stay for at least three years.

58

| Independent Party

In the allocation should take into account the needs and interests of each
school; not as before, that the allocation is an exclusive decision
each teacher based on their merits.
Schools should be performing maintenance and reforms
infrastructure to certain limit as a strategy to overcome the deterioration and
edilicia inability to run public awareness has taken in recent years.
Who can take and then implement the best and most appropriate decisions
on the premises are the centers themselves. Here is the best information and they are the
key stakeholders that this be done and done right. They are also best
They can manage the implementation and control those who make repairs and works
necessary. They are even better able to identify and select who
contract.
All this will require first increase the resources of each center, but just
is there greater operational capacity and should not be achieved at central levels,
They respond poorly, afternoon and never to local needs.

f. Increase investment and education spending
conditionalities
There is broad consensus, both in government and in opposition, where it is spent
in education more than in decades past and that's good, but there
a serious problem in the fact that this increase does not show tangible results
coverage and much less learning. Especially the field should be prioritized
if new sources of educational resources for the country, as shown on the attached
megaminería or possible oil fields.

Any increase
It must be associated with a
certain result.

For further increases in education spending and investment and wages in the sector
it is proposed to apply two strict criteria:
• any increase must be associated with a particular result
• and conditioned its effectuation to change to be implemented, new roles, new
services, new forms of intervention.
59

Transforming growth into human development |

g. Optimize the use of private schools
One should think of usufruct private schools in areas where
State schools are insufficient, especially low-income sectors. In the
secondary education there is a serious problem of coverage and yet every year there
number of teenagers who want to join but are unable, or do not in
rather by proximity centers or educational opportunities -we refer to areas
Occupational Labour University of Uruguay (UTU) -.
In the same areas there are private schools with spare capacity, which have
repeatedly expressed their willingness and interest in receiving students who can not
access to state. This funding should be allocated to the State, with all
the controls that apply to private schools. The only basis for not
perimida do it is a statist vision, which assigns some kind of superior value to
centers directly managed by the State.

h. At the university level, define and consolidate a number of
reforms that have different degrees of progress

Establishing the Agency
Accreditation
Institutions
University,
to years
It is stagnant.

• Give priority to create the Agency for Accreditation of Institutions
University, which for years has stalled. It should be a tool to assess,
Regular and above all improve the university quality. The requirements and criteria
They must be the same for all universities and colleges, surpassing the reflection
corporate that aims to protect the University of the Republic (UDELAR), which is
the point that has prevented broad agreement on the issue. This Act provides
a policy framework and a solid support to higher education policy.
• Create the Institute of Education, which provides training and recognition
university teachers of all educational levels. The Institute must
specialize in education and articulate their educational offer with institutions
university higher quality in each area of ​​knowledge (eg
math, language, history), giving them freedom of choice to students and not
pretending to be excellent in all subjects, which would not be viable.
• To consolidate the newly established University of Technology through institutes
specialized in the various productive sectors and therefore rooted in the
60

| Independent Party

Decentralization not
It is to locate offices
central inside,
but that the capacity
decision and initiative
are nearby and count
with the participation
Direct actors
production.

various regions in which the activity of each concentrated.
Decentralization is not locate headquarters in the interior, but
where decisiveness and initiative are close and has the
direct participation of the productive actors.
• Empower the National Agency for Research and Innovation (ANII) as
promoter and leader of a strengthened science and technology policy, integrating
knowledge production with actors and main bets development
economic and social life.
• Consolidate and strengthen corporate donations to projects of institutions
university, raising the ceilings and bureaucratic difficulties existing today.

61

Transforming growth into human development |

3. HEALTH
3.1. The aims of the policy and the health system
The reality of the sector should be analyzed in the light of the principles that guide or should
guide the design and performance of the health system, which is relevant response
that the law 18,211, which created the Integrated Health (NHIS) National System confuses
principles, objectives and instruments. Therefore, we start by defining large
purposes to which they must respond politics and the health system, we synthesized
Next:
• Maintain and improve the health status of the population.
• Ensure universal health care coverage and access to services.

Ensure sustainability
financial system to
short, medium and long
term.

• Ensure financial sustainability of the system in the short, medium and long term.
• Ensure equity in economic and welfare terms.

3.2. The situation in broad strokes
The health reform, which had the virtue to capitalize and promote an accumulation
advances and changes that occurred in several previous governments, has led
a number of achievements and also has several limitations and challenges. The major part
achievements occurred in the first frontage government, while in the second barely
They maintained and continued, in the context of a lack of political leadership
Health sector.
Progress has been made in the direction of universal coverage through a background
All that implies greater equity; They have been significantly reformulated
financing mechanisms in the sense of sustainability of the system and
improve incentives to produce. However, there are problems, especially
in the stewardship capacity and the design of the regulatory framework, questioning the
maintaining this progress and future successes.

62

| Independent Party

From a macro point of view, the first problem is the vagueness system
priorities and health goals. This prevents there a framework
framing sectoral policies that explicitly. The country has not defined
what are the main health problems and therefore those objectives and goals
priority, largely by gaps in epidemiological information.
What are the main problems? Do cardiovascular diseases? ¿Within these,
What ?: myocardial infarction, stroke? Are neoplasms
the priority? Which ones ?: breast cancer, lung cancer, colon?
What are traffic accidents? Are the suicides? The causes of infant mortality or
of mortality in children under five years? Any of these problems and others have
spent time in the foreground as a result of notable events, but
in no case it has made clear what should be addressed as a priority,
how much you can reduce your current specific rate of mortality and how soon.

The various programs
operating in
the Ministry of
Public Health have
insufficient and desapareja
definition capability
Goals and Strategies
policy.

It should be noted in this respect that historically the Ministry of Health
Public (MSP) has largely given up its duties on behalf of
-of honorary commissions Against Cancer, Cardiovascular Health, Fight
Prevalentes- Diseases and Tuberculosis, which has taken a leading role in
defining policies and epidemiological surveillance of diseases that are
within its field of competence. To this is added that the various programs
work in the Ministry of Public Health have insufficient capacity and desapareja
definition of policy goals and strategies.
The system and particularly the reform have suffered in recent years
serious problem of lack of leadership that puts into question their future developments.
This is primarily due to cyclical issues such as the profile of those who have
had the responsibility of leading the MSP during this period of government and problems
ideological character that strongly affect the quality of decisions
the regulation system. In the latter regard it is noteworthy the strong load
MSP mistrust and prejudice towards private companies (and
these towards one), leading to an excessively interventionist view organ
regulator, which even reaches aspects of micromanagement of institutions. To this
malfunctions must be added the regulatory body of the NHIS, that is,
National Board of Health (JUNASA).
One of the main problems is the situation Services Administration
State Health (ASSE), whose management is still operating difficulties
63

Transforming growth into human development |

and it fails to adapt to the new rules required by the reform. Suffers from
a large internal centralization does not provide local executing units
necessary to be effective in the service provided conditions. To this is added the
conformation and performance of its Board, which managed not resolve properly
the incorporation of the representation of workers, which must be firmly
questioned.

3.3. Proposals
to. MSP give the greatest strength in its capacity as the governing body of the system as
Overall, implying an obligation to take express definitions regarding
health objectives in the medium and long term. This requires a substantial improvement is needed
their systems of epidemiological information, and is required to assume its role as
major player in the art (for about honorary commissions).
The basket of benefits that are required to provide providers do not offer
an explicit mechanism for modification. This leads to a lack of transparency
when new services or features are incorporated into the Comprehensive Plan of Care
Health (PIAS), and in fact there have been no changes correlate of financing.
Consistent with the above, there are no mechanisms to evaluate interventions
and benefits to include or exclude the PIAS, which should be defined.

Create an agency
assessment
Health technology
independently
technical and policy.

b. Create an agency HTA regardless
technical policy, which constitutes a separate charge institutionality
evaluate new technologies or the available evidence about its effectiveness, to
the decision to incorporate the PIAS.
In this sense, the policy has been erratic, contradictory and downright ideological,
Seated in the explicit paradigm that the incorporation of new technologies must
made through the public sector.
The result of this policy, combined with weaknesses longstanding system and speech
primary care as a top priority -contrapuesta baseless to new
technologies-is a state of technological backwardness that compromises the effectiveness of responses
system to the health problems of individuals.

64

| Independent Party

c. Intended to implement a reinsurance coverage for psychiatric disorders
severe funded by all companies of the NHIS, allowing care
worthy of these patients, transcending the traditional model of care by
State exclusively through its psychiatric services -Colonies Santín
Carlos Rossi and Etchepare-.
d. The MSP must take the lead in occupational health policy, including
the definition of risks and benefits included in the insurance administered by the Bank
State Insurance (BSE).
There are systems cover specific risks outside the National Fund
Health (FONASA), that is, the coverage of occupational accidents and diseases
Professional -in the orbit of BSE- and medical procedures High
- by the National Resource Fund (FNR) -a technology. In the first case
adds little impact, not to mention a disregard, the MSP in the definition
the occupational health policy in the definition of the risks covered by this insurance
and the benefits to be included in the insurance plan, which are
fully in the purview of the BSE.
e. Analyze in depth the desirability of financing
System associated with social security.
If the FONASA reaches the entire population and financing becomes providers
by capitation, it is possible to predict future spending and establish a budget constraint
that supports epidemiological changes to unpredictable situations.

ASSE should be funded
similarly the
other providers,
ie through
adjusted capitation by
risk (sex and age) and not
by budget
as it has been
historically.

6. Strengthen incentives ASSE by internal decentralization and through
its redefinition as a provider of NHIS, drawing from its purview all
those services geriatric character (for example, the Hospital Piñeyro
Campo) that exceed the benefits included in the PIAS. The transfer should be evaluated
these competitive social security agency or MIDES. For that
should be studied including users ASSE FONASA coverage,
giving them the ability to choose their coverage.
While ASSE is a comprehensive provider of NHIS, it should be funded equally
the rest of providers, ie, through risk-adjusted capitation (sex and
age) and not through budget as it has been historically. Concomitantly,
you must remove the powers of ASSE providing services not included in
PIAS, in order to compete on equal terms with private providers.
65

Transforming growth into human development |

f. The system has not developed agencies that evaluate the quality of services
lending institutions. This implies the absence of information on the
performance of companies that affect the decision of individuals with regard to the election
the institution where ensure their health.
Moreover, it is questionable whether there is freedom of choice provided by law
18,211, as already noted about ASSE and users because it only enables
mobility between companies of 1 to 28 February each year for those most
three years in an institution. Draws attention, furthermore, that this
Disabled regulation only affects the collective health care
(CAMI), as at any time of the year to an individual affiliated IAMCs can
ASSE migrate or comprehensive insurance, but you can not do another IAMCs.

In a sector price
regulated variable
competition should be
quality, but it is not
It is evaluated and therefore
unknown.

As stated configure a scenario in which the incentives to compete are
little or no. In a sector of regulated prices, variable competition should
be the quality, but this is not evaluated and therefore unknown. This is adds one
extreme regulation of advertising and the impossibility of differentiation based on
additional features or new technologies.
In this regard it is necessary to advance the design and implementation of an evaluation system
quality of care that includes the public dissemination of information concerning
the performance of companies.

66

| Independent Party

4. The Institute for Children and Adolescents
4.1. Status report
In this case, unlike the others, it is considered more convenient to formulate
proposals in relation to the body, whereas other components
policies for children, adolescents and families are addressed in the chapters
education, health care and national care system, among others.
The Institute for Children and Adolescents of Uruguay (INAU) has steadily increased
coverage in the nearly 30 years after the dictatorship, responding to situations
exclusion and poverty affecting more children and adolescents than any other stretch
old. It is one of the institutional tools that respond to two major
social challenges facing the country today: the social divide that separates different sectors
social and deterioration of formal education, which has been a resounding failure with those who
are living in poverty or otherwise marginalized suffer. The two challenges
They set a foreclosure situation, lack of resources and opportunities as boys
who suffer hardly they manage to overcome the rest of his life.
INAU has one of the best governance structures, if we contrast
with the rest of social policy and especially educational. The body
It was modernized and expanded its coverage from 1985, turning to the private sector,
which it allowed him to reach nearly 90% of the more than 74,000 children and adolescents with
which works.
It should be noted that had major problems of driving in both the period
2000-2005 as in the following. Policies and programs for protection and prevention
they returned to pollute to have to live with the responsibility of the institution
care for young offenders.

They even fall into
facile demagogic
to victimize
offenders and facilitate
systematic "leakage"
breach of
judicial decisions
imprisonment.

They even fall into the facile demagogic offenders victimize and
facilitate systematic "leak" in violation of the court decisions deprivation
freedom. That demagoguery, which would justify ideologized interpretations,
apparently left and advanced, led the reaction of opposite sign, which
to the security problems experienced by the company responded by promoting low
the age of criminal responsibility as if it were a talisman.
67

Transforming growth into human development |

Participation
Independent Party
the Board, supporting
and contributing
actively in the design
and implementing
developed policies,
He represented a contribution
fundamental.

INAU direction during the second frontage government was very different from
the previous one. The participation of the Independent Party in the Directory support
and actively contributing to the design and implementation of policies
developed, it represented a fundamental contribution. Leaks stopped and strengthened
the education and employment of young inmates work. Was given
great autonomy and expertise to everything concerning criminal liability
adolescents, despite being a minor component has always been the
visibility of the Institute. A process of reformulation also began work
with children who for various reasons are deprived of parental care,
enhancing or reformulating alternatives to institutionalization.
All this led to a profound organizational realignment for the purpose of strengthening and
distinguish institutional roles of stewardship, monitoring and evaluation, in order to
improve the definition of goals and effectiveness in its achievement, considering both what
It makes policies and actions undertaken by the Institute as those run
by other state or private actors.

4.2. Proposals
Given the above analysis, the proposals are aimed at deepening and supplementing
achievements.
to. Criminal responsibility of adolescents with or without deprivation of liberty. To get better
-promoting social educational work continued formal education
of these young people and implement support mechanisms upon completion of the
judicial measures, aiming to reduce the levels of recidivism.
b. Readjustment of the Institute. Implement institutional reforms to strengthen
both the efficiency and effectiveness of its management as of private institutions
she works. Develop your ability to stewardship and leadership in all
policies for children and adolescents.
c. Enhance its contribution to the formal education and policies and programs first
Children, helping children and adolescents who are neglected and
Excluded receive the services they require for learning and continuing education
formal.

68

| Independent Party

Promote exercise
responsibilities and
parental rights
and families.

d. Take the initiative and leadership in the design and implementation of a policy
aimed at promoting the exercise of the responsibilities and rights
parents and families, for which they must articulate the contribution and participation of
the various state and private actors. It will be necessary to define and obtain the first
effectively measurable results during the next period of government.

69

Transforming growth into human development |

5. NATIONAL SYSTEM OF CARE
5.1. Status report
Uruguayan society and especially a good part of their families face
two difficult problems and so tightly interconnected that
reality are two sides of the same coin. On the one hand, it offers support
very insufficient for early childhood care, the elderly and
people with disabilities. The flipside is that that role in emotional terms, of
dedication and economic lies with the families they belong young children,
the elderly and the disabled. Heavy Uruguayan State, in some
in situations where it is most needed, let alone families and within
them, especially women of all ages, who are those who assume
functions.

He was widely
consensus on the
advisability of establishing
a national system
care, progress was made in
and set design
a fiscal situation
exceptional
to, but not
He was able to
implement it.

In recent years there were all the conditions for progress in this direction. They
He had a broad consensus on the desirability of creating a national system
care, progress was made in its design and set of exceptional fiscal situation
to do so, but not the ability to implement it was. The lack of resources which
was the final cause not do so, considering the priority of the issue, the situation
economic state of the country and indicates lack of conviction or, more likely,
disability management. In this as in other matters on balance is a strong imbalance
between the time and effort dedicated to cumbersome and elongated processes of consultation and
those to the embodiments, which in this case were nil.
A system of care is a priority for the three sectors mentioned population
and their families, and especially constitute a major component of a
gender equity policy, to facilitate conditions for study and work
outside the home for women of all ages.

70

| Independent Party

5.2. Proposal
to. To improve and strengthen monitoring programs and support for newborns, to
their parents by providing services that enable their development. To ease
and promote training, placement and job performance of mothers, improving
reconciliation of these aspects with breastfeeding and caring for their children.
b. Universal coverage of early childhood centers and kindergartens in
all ages that families require.
c. Promote mechanisms to facilitate the combination of work and care in the
early childhood, considering both mothers and fathers and is
They play in dependent or independent work.
This should include incentives to companies that take advantage (which should
that supports various formats) Time and dedication during lactation -
including work at a distance or creating nursery places offices
work (spaces that enable parents to work with their young children).
Incentive mechanisms, financing, and exemptions should be provided, such
so that the costs of care in these stages do not fall only or mainly in
families and also in companies or private organizations or State -whether
where parents play. The disincentive for companies should be avoided
hire mothers with small children or fertile women.
d. Developing the National System of Care for the purpose of supporting functions
families regarding early childhood, the elderly and people with
disabilities.

Seek System
strengthen families,
not replace or
you relegate.

System will seek to strengthen families, not replace or relegate, so
strategies consist of providing them with alternatives and resources that enable them to choose
between receiving external services or funding, support and recognition
care provided by the family. It will offer training and advice to
who fulfill these functions, which in turn will be recognized in terms of the
developed and job performance, both for purposes of continuity capabilities
Formal education and the rights as workers.
They are valued and regulate those services that provide society organizations
civil, businesses and individuals, promoting and evaluating their contribution and not replacing it
for services performed by state agencies.
71

Transforming growth into human development |

e. Regulate and implement the law 18,651, on Protection of People with
Disability, enabling the development of: 1) medical, psychological and social care;
2) rehabilitation and social security; 3) education in diversity,
tending to the integration of people with disabilities; 4) training and
intellectual, physical and development work; 5) public transport; 6) formation
specialized staff for support, counseling and rehabilitation; 7) stimuli
for entities that give jobs; 8) educational programs and
the community for people with disabilities; 9) Urban adequacy edilicia
and public walk, whether in closed or open areas, and 10) access to information
incorporating technological advances.
f. It should ensure that public services are accessible both physically and
technologically. Technological systems, infrastructure and equipment
should ensure accessibility for people with disabilities.
g. Specific mechanisms must be provided training for people with
disabilities achieve complete their formal education without physical or technological barriers and
they can compete in the market on equal terms. Also you must adapt
system calls and recruitment in the State in order to avoid barriers
He entered.
The office which receives the person with disability should be accessible both physically
and technologically, and other officials should be sensitized to
adequately meet the new income.
Importantly, all these measures should not be oriented only
crafts. Many people with disabilities are able to perform
administrative and professional jobs. Often integration programs
labor limited to repetitive manual tasks that frustrate those, beating
all barriers have managed training. Education and work are fundamental
to reduce the vulnerability of people with disabilities.

Prioritize adults
older people living alone and
for women
at that stage assume
caring for others
members of the family.

h. Prioritize the elderly who live alone and women assume at that stage
the care of other family members, supporting them and complementing the
performance of that function, so that the take according to their possibilities
and will.

72

| Independent Party

i. Meeting the critical situations of elderly people in terms of
health, social security, housing and income, whereas one in three suffers
gaps in at least one of these aspects.
It is designed a chain of services that meet a growing heterogeneity,
the diversity of profiles, pathologies and needs and capabilities
and their families greater adult population.
j. Promote and facilitate the integration of young children, people with
disabilities and older people to the life of their families, considering the
devices they require, for example, in public services, activities
cultural or housing design.
k. Provide support, through various forms of provision and financing,
promote and facilitate the care of young children, people with
disabled and elderly people by their families.

Develop policies
environments and cities
Children friendly
small people
disabilities and people
higher.

l. Generalizing the windows or preferential treatment procedures in the process,
and consumer services for people with disabilities, the elderly,
pregnant women and those in charge of small children.
m. Develop policies and environment-friendly cities for young children,
disabled and elderly.
n. Expand, develop and improve the quality of supply of services and resources
qualified human target young children, people with disabilities and people
higher. This should include training programs and mechanisms
evaluation, certification and information services and human resources.

73

Transforming growth into human development |

6. HOUSING
6.1. Status report
Law 18,795, 2011, prepared fiscal incentives to boost the supply of housing, with
in order to improve the conditions of access to housing "social interest". For that
the law established a program to promote investment projects linked to the
construction, recycling or repair of buildings destined for housing interest
social. Those projects that are being promoted have reported a series of
MVOTMA tax benefits estimated at a cost reduction of around 17%.
For this, the projects must meet the following conditions: a) expand
significantly the amount of affordable housing for sale; b) facilitating
access to housing to low socio-economic sectors, lower middle and middle;
c) contributing to social integration; d) improve the conditions for financing and
security, and e) encourage technological innovation.
As for incentives to demand, two mechanisms are implemented: the Fund
Guarantee for mortgage loans (FGCH) and subsidies share of
mortgage loans. The FGCH aims to facilitate lending to those without
previous saving enough, who can access a credit of up to 90%
appraised value of the property secured by the fund. The FGCH guarantees up
that by paying the total fees amount to be guaranteed is canceled.
MVOTMA also ordered a subsidy to the amount of mortgage you can
up to 50%, depending on the situation of the buyer.
First we must consider that the law 18,795 is not a promotion for
social housing. The values ​​that are handled are located at a level that
far exceeds the possibilities of much of the middle class.

The tax benefits
They were granted by law
rapidly absorbed
by the increase in
construction costs.

Second, the tax benefits granted by the law were quickly
absorbed by the increase in construction costs, which in the years 20112012 were the order of 30%.
Third, there is an objective law raised in that has not been translated into action
concrete: the introduction of new technologies in construction. By incorporating
74

| Independent Party

new techniques to increase the productivity of the construction industry,
improve operational and financial costs. On this point there is a wealth of experience
International. To the extent that the construction industry produces a good
nontradable, costs generally are relatively similar for all
actors and, therefore, increases its price is transferred. In that sense
technology imports would be a good option to reduce costs
by increasing productivity, which would be reflected in prices
housing.
This would be broadly beneficial for low-income sectors, as they could
access to decent housing at lower prices, which is very important because the value
called social housing promoted as provided by law is 18,795
It increased 25% compared to the average income of households corresponding year
2012 to Montevideo.
In summary:
to. The maximum values ​​of the houses belonging to the projects promoted
by law 18,795 they are far beyond the reach of the middle class, middle
low and low.
b. Subsidies and additional warranty FGCH not resolve the underlying issue,
which it is the value of housing in relation to the level of household income.
c. In this context it is proposed to prioritize the introduction of new technologies
building to ensure access to the areas of middle and low income.

Prioritize the introduction
new technologies
Construction
allow access to
sectors revenue
medium and low.

6.2. Proposals
Uruguay suffering a housing shortage of between 60,000 and 80,000 homes. Namely,
that is the number of households that are deprived of the right to a place, condition
necessary to exercise other rights. At the same time, they have identified about
probably 60,000 vacant homes, many of them in ruins.
It is proposed, therefore, define the abandonment and actions that could
State to take, using this resource, facilitate access to housing
individuals or families without a decent place to live.

75

Transforming growth into human development |

Another key is to use the stock of developed land or buildings, farms, barns
or state-owned lands that are not used, especially those located in areas
services.
From these two sources of resources support mechanisms must be generated to
construction and recycling, in order to convert these properties into livable homes
in decent conditions for those deprived of this right.
In technology, while Uruguay has not been left behind in exploring
new possibilities and transcend conventional construction techniques -
Driven by public and private institutions or companies and architects
entrepreneurs-, these alternative roads have not reached the critical mass necessary
to impact the industry.

Study, evaluate and
encourage the use of
new technologies
construction.

Therefore, an essential chapter in the housing instrumental discussion is the question
to the enormous possibilities opened up by new technologies. Must be overcome
the restrictive approach and traditional materials and construction techniques that
They tend to unduly expensive all processes. To that end we propose to study,
evaluate and promote the use of new building technologies, especially those
facilitate access to homeownership sectors of middle and low income.
By way of example only, in today's world the possibilities of wood beyond anything
imagined a few years ago; ecological plaster is another input that opens perspectives
and possibilities; It is also promising a more intensive use of construction
using prefabricated components or based on modular concepts.

76

| Independent Party

7. RECREATION, SPORTS AND LEISURE
7.1. Status report
The expectations generated by the creation of the first Ministry of Sport were
finally frustrated by its merger with tourism, embodied in the first weeks
the first government of the Frente Amplio. As part of an exponential development
of the tourism industry in the country, the rest of the powers of the Ministry of
Tourism and Sport were relegated, if not outright ignored. Even the
goal of expanding access to tourism was relegated by promoting the development
economic sector. To it was added that the management of the National
It was absorbed by sport safety functions corresponding -rather
the Ministry of the Interior and the universal physical education in
schools which falls to the ANEP. The few efforts recorded in tourism
social lack of clear objectives.

7.2. Proposals
Develop a Plan
National Sport that
contribute to objectives
both enjoyment
time as
population health.

to. Develop a National Plan of Sport aims to contribute to both enjoy
leisure and health of the population. This plan should provide guidance to
disarticulated the various programs that have been added, and generate
promotion and evaluation mechanisms of diversity initiatives developed
from society, often usufructuando public resources (eg,
granting public spaces exclusively tax exemption).
b. Develop a National Recreation Plan aimed at comprehensive development of
people, considering the needs of different age groups, to promote
appropriation of public space as an area for meeting and improving respect
and coexistence. To carry it out is necessary to promote the formation of
youth and community reenactors.
c. Develop infrastructure and social services aimed at tourism, for example:
a) creation of adventure tourism circuits, b) transforming stations and
disused railway lines into greenways equipped services c) create a system

77

Transforming growth into human development |

boating posts in major waterways. Engaging in these initiatives
local entrepreneurs, through various modalities, such as management
own activities, transportation, rustic accommodation or food.

And approve
a law of bikeways
that integrates as
part of the development
and maintenance
streets and roads.

d. And approve a law that integrates bicycle paths as part of development
and maintenance of streets and roads (for example, for every kilometer
pavement 100 meters from ciclovía generated), aiming at promoting
public space alternative to the car.

78

| Independent Party

8. CULTURE
8.1. Status report
After the assumption of the Broad Front government, conditions for development
cultural policies in Uruguay have been highly favorable. The momentum and
commitment developed during the first frentista administration, timeliness
parliamentary sanction of a set of laws and a significant increase in
the allocation of budgetary resources brought about a strengthening
cultural institutions.
This new scenario allowed the Ministry of Education and Culture own rescue and
project, with other denominations and government programs alcances-
past that they had a strong impulse, but without the necessary resources,
aimed at promoting the artistic and cultural life throughout the country, support
local cultural initiatives, training operators and cultural managers, strengthen
museums and libraries, among others.
The hierarchy of the National Culture (DNC), giving it greater
autonomy within the paragraph itself; the law on tax incentives for companies
essentially private to support artistic activity; the approval of the cinema law
and audiovisual regulation rules grant funds for culture and background
cultural incentive; the law creating the National Public Library System and
presentation of the bill on the National System of Museums; the culmination of
works in the complex SODRE are part of a new structure and nomenclature
that intervenes from the public in this area.

Projects and programs
they have not achieved the
expected results
medium term and
concretions not condicen
with investment
budgetary resources
assigned.

However, projects and programs have not achieved the expected results
medium-term and concretions are not consistent with the investment of resources
allocated budget. We view with concern the systematic concentration
efforts to develop a schedule of events and shows epicenter
policy. While it is vital to promote and disseminate the extensive national production,
that can not mean absolute cultural policies.
In this area the public sector had no capacity for dialogue with society or
other public and private areas. Nor it applied appropriate criteria of decentralization.
79

Transforming growth into human development |

The MEC and Power Plants Cultural Centers, located throughout the national territory, is
initiated by default and without analyzing the local references; in turn, depend
administratively executing unit in Montevideo and manage their activity without
proper coordination with departmental governments, which involves doubling
efforts overwhelms injured autonomy and the peculiarities of each locality.

We continue
having libraries
public lacking
institutions without
articulation between them,
they have not modernized
and services
therefore do not contribute
appropriately to
education or the
cultural promotion.

Competitive Funds have failed to cover a diverse set of initiatives
emerging, but have privileged consecrated artists and productions paths.
It has not regulated the Public Libraries Act. The National Library, which was
convened to lead this project, he did not specify its own and needed modernization or
also he supported the consolidation of the Network of Public Libraries and Popular.
As a result, we continue to have public libraries lacking institutions,
no coordination between them, which have not modernized their services and therefore not
properly contribute to education and cultural promotion.
The same applies to museums, which, despite having institutionalized a field
coordination, lack of corporate imprint able to promote more diligence
UDELAR in the implementation of the specific academic training.
In supporting theatrical institutions allocating provisions highlights
montevideanas millions two related government organizations, excluding the
rest of the country and the independent sector.

8.2. Proposals
to. Prioritize equity and regional balance as allocation criterion
resources and activities. For this purpose, national authorities must reinstall and improve
substantially coordination and complementarity with the actions and services
offered by the municipalities. Secondly instruments should be promoted
Territorial articulation of cultural policies with national policies
decentralization involving departmental governments. Return
municipal infrastructure of culture, at different levels, as set
Central decentralization.
b. Strengthen the already instituted or planned instances in cultural policy -
as the National Music Fund (FONAM), the Commission for the Promotion of Theatre

80

| Independent Party

Analysis and streamline
make possible the processing of
legislative proposals
as regards
social security for
artists.

(COFONTE), the House of Comedies, MEC Annual Awards, the National Award
Literature or, more generally, the Funds and Concursables- Incentive Funds
making adjustments as appropriate to encourage diversity and the emergence
new initiatives. Analysis and streamline the processing of viable proposals
legislation when it comes to social security for artists.

81

Transforming growth into human development |

82

| Independent Party

III.
BY STATE
QUALITY

83

Transforming growth into human development |

84

| Independent Party

It is precisely at this time that we must strengthen the uncompromising or weaknesses
Democratic state to the claims of authoritarian and totalitarian forms that
They threaten from different conceptions.
To the extent that governance is not fully exercised, in so far as
I can not fulfill their promises, to the extent not go adapting to the
or changes need to be improved in performance, citizens stop
feel the State as its own and will cease to defend and identify with its structure
and development.

The Independent Party
He proposes his vision of
how to organize the State
to allow the
exercise of good governance.

Therefore the Independent Party proposes his vision of how to organize the State
to allow the exercise of good governance.
It is with respect to the items on this subject precisely the citizen
perceives and suffers direct, concrete and everyday the result of state management form.
It is in making decisions about how government institutions work
within the framework of a democratic state, as well as the criteria defining the
dedicated to the defense of the country outside agencies and those responsible for
maintain public safety of our citizens, where the perception of playing
the results of public management.
It is in the way the territory is organized and power is distributed among the
different levels of the community where the orientation of the particular State
Service people and the common good.

85

Transforming growth into human development |

1. STATE REFORM
During the twentieth century and so far today, Uruguay has had a powerful state and active
in many ways, but basically maintains the structure and organization
that occurred more than five decades ago, at the time of the substitution policies
imports.
The process of economic liberalization that has occurred in recent years in the form
deepening and technological, cultural and social produced
Urgent do otherwise manage the Uruguayan State.
Beyond all that our state is seen by its citizens from the perspective
contradictory, because on one hand the Uruguayan society is profoundly statist
and at the same time, the citizens themselves complain about the inefficiency of their services and
It does not identify the public bureaucracy as an actor that is characterized by quality
its management.
Attempts since the democratic restoration results have been only
moderately positive in public companies in the industrial and commercial domain
State, but it is within the scope of central government and services
decentralized where most spending is concentrated and officials
Public country, precisely where modernization efforts had not
as a result no real institutional strengthening and effective improvement
service to citizens.
The same is true of departmental governments, despite the creation of a
third level of government and the attempts made in the past decade on
institutional capacities.

State reform
It has been easier
proclaim ("the mother of
all reforms ") that
to put into practice.

Clearly state reform has been easier to proclaim (the "mother
of all reforms ") that implement. Indeed, recent announcements
such reforms were not accompanied by a conceptual corpus, not know their
components, their schedule much less fiscal cost. Sometimes
it would seem that the state reform was the reform of the health system; in others,
infrastructure projects and investments in public companies, and so on,
according to taste Communicator turn.

86

| Independent Party

The Independent Party proposes to conceptualize state reform through
development of cross-cutting policies to the public sector, which is Iran implementing
gradually in different areas and institutions-, on two levels: 1) the institutional level, and
2) modernization and professionalization of management. Both levels are complementary
and they deserve to be treated through a systems approach.

eleven. Institutional level
The machinery of government, public institutions, must adapt to the needs
an increasingly dynamic, complex and fragmented public sector, as a product
of a type of governance characterized by the development of collaborative networks between
different actors of civil society. Some suggestions for this are:
to. Strengthen government centers -Presidency, OPP, National Service Office
Civil (ONSC) and Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF) - in their ability to
ensure coordination and coherence of public policies.
In the current Uruguay, the presidency is a weak organism in their capabilities
policy coordination, whether at ministerial level, with Parliament or the
civil society. It is also weak in their capacity for monitoring and evaluation of policies
public. Instead, it has in its orbit a series of public projects and programs
They have no reason to be there, but a cyclical interest directly control.
The same is true of the OPP, which has not developed true capabilities
planning in the medium term, so it can not fulfill its role fully
advise the President on development strategies.
The ONSC has a conception of human management practices rooted in centralized
control, instead of developing a modern perspective planning
career in the public sector and regulatory frameworks that provide appropriate
systems evaluation of officials. The MEF, for its part, has not been able
develop skills that make him a major player in the development of
a results-based management, in an oiled coordination with budget
the other centers of government.

The more fragmented
and complex the industry
public, more powerful
capacity should be
coordinating centers
of government, together with
different agencies.

The more fragmented and complex the public sector, the stronger must be the ability
coordination of government centers, among themselves and with the various government agencies,
semi-public and private that are involved in public policy.
87

Transforming growth into human development |

b. Proceed to greater specialization and division of labor between agencies
Policymakers, of those who regulate and those who provide
goods and services.
The ministries in Uruguay have not yet been properly trained
to perform their functions. A radical version of this specialization can
reflected in the creation of semi-autonomous agencies who are responsible for the
provision of services, separate from small specialized ministerial structures
in policymaking.
You could also think of more moderate versions. One would units
provision of services within each ministry, but would devise legal ways and
accounting more flexible to give them greater autonomy and management highly
professionalized.
A clear example of such weaknesses as the MEC is a macroministerio
where countless units responsible for providing a public service
weak units mistaken policy, which in turn have very
little impact on providing agencies with strong degree of autonomy.
Meanwhile, those agencies or bodies responsible for control tasks
policies and public services He provided under conditions of competition or not
should have a degree of autonomy and hierarchical budget of today in their
most lack.
c. Reinforce and strengthen the role of the Court of Auditors for his remarks are
considered by the hierarchies of the Executive.
This requires further work on the renovation and modernization of law
public; for example, on state purchases. Otherwise, the Court of
Accounts is forced to comment on purchases that would otherwise not
would.

It should be strengthened
ability of the Court
Accounts do
management controls
public organisms.

This produces, while inflation observations, which gives rise to
Parliament will not try most of them, instead of committing to consider
substantive issues. While decreases of ritualistic
the observations should be strengthened capacity of the Court of Auditors to do
management controls public bodies.
88

| Independent Party

d. Strengthening Parliament's ability to perform audits on
public bodies, as do other parliamentary systems audits
parliamentarians and the American presidentialism.
It is very fruitful exchanges in those countries where the audit of Parliament
He works with centers of executive government in the design of the
management indicators agencies that make up the national budget.
e. Modernize public law
The controls in procurement and contracting of public bodies be
much more effective if you work carefully loosen ex-ante controls
and seriously incorporate ex post controls on certain types of activities, such as
companies, state radio and television, national statistics, education
public.
Thus the phenomenon known as leakage of public law would not occur:
artificial creation of new non-state public entities to escape the
Central Administration standards; approval of budgets presented
formally public companies but are not actually used; companies
anonymous daughters and granddaughters of public enterprises; parallel bureaucracies contracted with
extrabudgetary funds or through agencies unaccountable to the Court
Accounts such as the National Corporation for development.

Control, regulate and
prohibit development
limited companies
state capital.

f. Control, regulate and prohibit the development of state corporations capital.
In our law and comparative law, state agencies can meet
its tasks using for it the same company forms the subject
private, in partnership with other subjects or not, public or private.
The new constitutional provision raised discrepancies in the doctrine, which is
They reflected in the legislation: first, it was argued that there "State" refers to all
State entities; on the other, it was understood that only relates to the public person more
named, leaving out the departmental governments, autonomous entities and
decentralized services.
The latter interpretation does not mean to exclude the possibility that these entities
"minor" state using private corporate forms; means only that the
89

Transforming growth into human development |

limitations contained in the constitutional provision will not apply, but since
competition from those entities is determined by law, even with that interpretation
the law may confer the right to use private corporate forms to meet
its tasks.

Numerous laws
They conferred to agencies
autonomous and services
the decentralized
right to participate in
business capital
Private
or to constitute itself
societies governed by
private law.

By way of either of those interpretations, the reality is that many
laws conferred to autonomous entities and decentralized services, as well as the
departmental governments, the power to participate in the capital of private companies
or to establish themselves societies governed by private law, provided, of course,
They committed themselves in rotation.
This has been effectively done ANCAP ANP BROU, UTE PLUNA and, among others,
some of them copiously, mostly in companies created for that purpose or being
provided such participation.
However, since such companies are privately nonstate entities,
the standards of the latter does not apply to them: they are not subject to the
controls that fall on them, nor to the forms of contract that govern them, or their
workers are public servants subject to the statutes of those, among others
Special solutions for protection of the public interest limiting state action that
They are excluded.
However, assets and funds used these companies handle
They are substantially public; moreover, they are state property and funds of origin, and
ostensible that own internal control procedures of private companies,
based on the defense by shareholders of their own self-interest, do not work
They do it properly or not at all when he or shareholders are entities
state.
In response to this reality, various laws have established special solutions for these
companies with state participation in their capital, which does not apply to the generality of
the companies with similar privately without such participation.
The use of private corporate forms may be desirable and even necessary in
certain cases, clearly when it comes to industrial and commercial entities
in competition with private companies, to enable them to do so in conditions
equality. But for some years, and sharply in the last two governments, it has been
used and abused this instrument, which has acquired a disproportionate extension.
90

| Independent Party

The companies created or participated directly by state entities
they have added others created by these companies might be called primary, and
phenomenon is repeated in successive steps, so that it has come to talk about
companies second, third or subsequent generations, which is called daughters,
grandchildren or great-grandchildren of the original.
The scale of the problem is exacerbated because these societies directly derived from
created or participated by state agencies they are not even apply the rules
Special dictated for the latter, because it is created by other companies
who they do not have private formally state participation.

It has woven a tangled
in which not only the
External control is
difficult or just
absent; truly,
to the knowledge
its mere existence is
difficult or impossible.

This has woven a web in which not only the external control is difficult or
simply nonexistent; indeed, to the knowledge of their mere existence it is
difficult or impossible. The branches of companies deriving from the state entity, arriving
surely to be counted by tens, become inscrutable, but ultimately
They continue managing and disposing of property that originally are public and state.
The power to incorporate companies privately or participate in its creation should
limited to state entities whose activities are in competition with
private companies, which is the assumption that you can truly justify himself, and
prohibit by law the companies created or participated by state entities are
empowered turn create new companies or to participate in its creation and
order the dissolution and liquidation of existing ones.
adequate external control mechanisms should be established in addition to the
companies created or participated by state entities. They may not be the same as
They apply to state entities, because then surely disappear
largely the reason for their existence, but they must be sufficient to
prevent the occurrence of phenomena of corruption that have culminated in countries
distant, similar to these situations occurring here.
It should establish a receivership or general audit of companies created or
participated by state agencies, run by a body with strong or dominant
integration of the constituent parties having parliamentary minorities
intense powers of control.
Otherwise, you can not fail to mention now, subtracting public funds
administration by those bodies which in principle should correspond,
91

Transforming growth into human development |

and avoid the application of constitutional rules governing its control, is
in creating wealth funds affectation or custom, as the
trusts, often managed by specialized private agents.
Examples have multiplied over the last two governments and already reach
the decade: Trust collective passenger transport Investment Fund
Departmental Development Fund (Fondes), Credit Guarantee Fund
Mortgage National Unification Fund Tribute Patent Vehicles, etc.
Also for them, that manage public resources sometimes substantial, they must
adequate external control mechanisms that safeguard the public interest created
committed.

1.2. The level of modernization
and professional management
Governance is the institutional skeleton muscle. It should not be understood
as an area in which a management paradigm with universal validity is imposed and
devoid of political options. The management paradigm that is developed will serve
the proposed development model, and the resulting institutional designs should do
address specific problems that want to solve.
Management solutions will be different depending on the area in which they promote, and
as these areas and these problems management strategies have a particular
combination of administrative values.
In some areas the values ​​associated with the guarantees of the rule of law will be
priority, while in other areas, where the rule of law is not in question,
They may look more flexible solutions that tend to combine legal guarantees
with values ​​linked to business efficiency.

may be sought
more flexible solutions
tending to combine
legal guarantees
the values ​​linked to the
business efficiency.

Modernization strategies proposed can be grouped into three broad
interrelated areas: 1) the management of human resources in the public sector;
2) the development of a logic based on the evaluation of management results, and 3)
approach of public services to citizens.

92

| Independent Party

to. Civil Service reform and the need
A new pact between politicians and bureaucrats
This reform, due to its complexity, political sensitivity and financial costs, should
be approached as a process of medium and long term, knowing that revenues
Politicians are scarce and concentrated face high associated costs.

Revalue the race
on administrative
meritocratic bases,
with components
flexibility that make
the functional model
governance that
He wants to promote.

The cornerstone principle of this reform is marked by the Ibero-American Charter itself
Public Service, with the slogan merit flexibility. This means the revaluation of
the administrative career on meritocratic basis, with flexible components
that make functional model of governance to be promoted.
The traditional system of administrative career in Uruguay has not worked
in practice due to the existence of informal mechanisms of human management
and associated remuneration. This expresses a lack of respect for legality
existing, anchored on one side, clientelistic political traditions in court
Uruguayan political system and, on the other hand, in a mismatch of the system
policy management needs of a modern state.
It is therefore necessary to think a reform of the Civil Service to modify the statutes
of the civil service, based on a new pact between politicians and bureaucrats
give political support to this new legal reality.
In that agreement, grant certain political rights to career bureaucracy as
relative job security, adequate remuneration system tasks
who work, legal protections against arbitrary actions affecting
professional development, information leak when the officer detected
and these irregularities are not addressed by their superiors in exchange for loyalty
incumbent government and its policy objectives, which is not the same as políticopartidario- support.
To prove that this pact, political parties in Uruguay should stop considering
the bureaucracy established as a group appointed by potential enemies
opposition parties or political authorities before the party itself
government. This would lead to limit the discretion with which the political authorities
designate the positions of the high bureaucracy -Heads project, consultants, encargaturas-,
which it is in fact a parallel bureaucracy personal or partisan confidence.

93

Transforming growth into human development |

Should establish more
clearly the limit
where the level ends
political -Charges of
confidence, and advisors-
management begins
professional
and unbiased
career bureaucracy.

It should establish more clearly the limit where it ends the political level -Charges
confidence, and begins advisors- professional and impartial management of the bureaucracy
career.
However, for political hierarchies stop seeing the bureaucracy as a
enemy or a nuisance, the civil service must have characteristics that give
political hierarchy guarantees that there will be boycotted in their management and the
Bureaucracy has the competencies needed to perform its tasks.
Hence the importance of redesigning the administrative career and in particular high
bureaucracy in Uruguay. This reform reaches Administration officials
Central and agencies of Article 220 of the Constitution. Does not reach the
officials of public enterprises or departmental governments, while
Public other non-permanent contractual arrangements should be covered by
the Civil Service Statute but not part of the civil service.

The administrative career
The civil service should offer a field of legal guarantees, possibilities
professional development and flexibilities necessary for political authorities and
administrative hierarchies have a significant margin of freedom of management.
• First, should no longer be structured in corporate form, ie,
according to professional or technical requirements for the job. For him
Instead, it should be the task or occupation that career structure, and not to
Conversely. This means making hard work of identifying groups
or occupational families with similar characteristics within which a
official makes his career.
• Clustering in occupations allows adequate planning
training of employees, through courses where people with similar interests
and related responsibilities can share their experiences and update
permanently their knowledge on the subject.
• The officials must be able to compete for any position for which they are qualified
including a requirement of seniority in gerenciales- charges and up
horizontally between all public sector jobs.
94

| Independent Party

• The entrance examinations to the civil service may have their bases some
conditions that favor public officials, including posts
Hierarchical responsibility requirements of experience in the civil,
but generally they should be open and remove the requirement that it enter
always by grade level or lower.
• Officials should be evaluated periodically based on indicators
management hard to express the achievement of institutional objectives
Combined with soft indicators on skills developed in
its management. These assessments will be essential to remain in office, and
in cases of poor performance guarantees people will review
representatives of their peers.
• The compensation system must be single scale or spine,
where the passage from one grade level to another expressed wage compressions
scale, identifying floors and ceilings within the same occupational group, according to the
level of complexity and responsibility of the specific occupation. This in principle
more complex -since collective bargaining must be negotiated separately
ocupacionales- different families, but once established these floors and ceilings,
wage increases that the government has made in proportion to
from the lower salary scale. Today executing units traded
separated by his ministry and the MEF, according to the corporate weight they have, what
making collective bargaining a bit operating environment.
• A system of remuneration fixed salary of occupations from
an analysis of public value they add to society, given
also the responsibility and hierarchy that leads the workplace, is a
complex process. It should assess the fiscal room for progress in this line
and should do so taking into account the acquired rights of workers,
so incorporating a new scale will have to be progressive and negotiated. They
They should also take, but not limited to industry benchmarks
private and other sectors of the public sector and public enterprises.

System
Fixed remuneration
the salary of the
occupations from
an analysis of the value
these added public
to the society.

• Rethinking public value and calculate the mean occupations break
a certain salary and a career ladder structured around the old
hierarchical scale structure.

95

Transforming growth into human development |

• The ONSC should aim to be an agency with greater independence of Power
Executive and become a Civil Service Commission composed of experts
and members of all parties to work to guarantee protection last
public officials.
• It is necessary that the ONSC abandon its excessive emphasis on being an organism
Driver management ministries based on mistrust, with practices
outdated bureaucratic. Decentralized mechanisms should be implemented and
garantistas good management in every public body.

The high bureaucracy
It should be the High Civil Service and to properly define their role and their relationship
with political hierarchies.
It must be emphasized management functions in the areas of provision of
with solid budget and personnel management. You might think of replacing
the current directors of executing units, which are positions of political trust,
management professionals with responsibility for the provision of services and
strong discretion in the management of its human and financial resources.

Unit managers
implementers should
personnel remain
political trust.

The heads of executive units whose function is to formulate policies
public with strong political content should remain reliable staff
political, but would have to present credentials on technical knowledge
matter, as in the case with the old theory charges of high priority. This should
more applicable to current directors general secretariat, responsible for
overall management of the ministries.
Consideration should be given a selection system of this type of staff
ensure its professional excellence, and evaluation system of guarantees for these
officials and their political superiors.
Another alternative, less profitable than the previous one, is posed by the new statute
study of a government official. The high bureaucracy would be at charges
called high driving, but these are located at a lower level, as
would replace the current division directors, who have very little freedom of

96

| Independent Party

management and are not responsible for the provision of a service-since computers
spending remain directors ejecutoras- units.
The important thing in any of these options is to create a professional level below
political hierarchies, with responsibility for management and advice
professional and impartial ministers and political hierarchy, to be valued and respected
for their technical skills.
These senior public managers should be easy to rotate at different positions
Working in the public sector and a strategic vision of the entire sector. To access
these positions would then be desirable not only have a very good record in
technical, but scores associated with their skills in counseling
their bosses, teamwork and knowledge of public machinery.

b. The incorporation of logic
management based on performance
Monitoring and management evaluation is essential to act
strategically correct time and the course of government policy.

The rhetoric of
evaluation has been
easy to impose your
effective practice.

The rhetoric of the evaluation has been easier to impose effective practice,
because it involves a great deal of training and incorporation of technologies
the information. Not all information is translated into social intelligence for decision
making in public policy; and this requires a mature processing
that information derived from extensive training in the use of technology
corresponding.
Based products and results of management budget is a tool
essential, but not easy to advance this logic in some 220 executing units
having the national budget. You are required mature exercises
strategic planning within agencies and train officials in the
armed logical value chains, in order to be able to go slowly putting together
indicators that are relevant to the management- and monitoring -indicators
-indicators evaluating results and impact-product.

97

Transforming growth into human development |

You can structure the national budget in program areas and subdivided into
-such as happens now-specific programs, but does not mean that these are
designed with logic or value chains that are clearly identified
each program products.
Is indispensable IT development to support the management, but for
This requires installing decentralized human capabilities and systems
Information at ministerial level. Otherwise there will be no appropriation of
methodology and least involvement of ministers.

Government centers
must modernize
support systems
computer that
systematize and process the
information.

The centers of government should modernize computer systems support
systematize and process the information. Keep in mind that these systems
computer are very expensive and must be incorporated carefully and knowing that
they will be used to its full potential. The information processing
budget based on products based programs greatly improves
clear accountability to Parliament-the budget based on inputs not
It is capable of exercising a substantive tool control public spending, but
also enhances the accountability of ministers to the President
and helps monitor the presidential priorities.
It is important to note that the design and use of performance indicators is a
policy tool that should be used responsibly. It should be a process
negotiated with workers and understood by those responsible for providing
the information that feeds them, who use them to measure and who receive
information for purposes of political control legislation.

c. The approach of the
public services to citizens
This component of the reform of the State is not only valuable as a tool for
building citizenship, but because it is a tool of political legitimation
the reform itself, while the other components that are harder develop
to visualize. All they involved in the discussion on public officials, but
Discussion on the Status matter except just to those directly involved and not
even officials-all. The citizen revisits the official when
You must receive a public benefit or perform a procedure with a public office.
98

| Independent Party

Simplification
formalities should be
face as a task
of all
public organisms.

The simplification of procedures must be addressed as a task of all
public bodies, for which cooperation between them is indispensable, and that
should be designed so the political and economic incentives.
It is necessary that the political will expressed and permanently from the maximum
authorities or prevail disputes and jealousy among government agencies. Should
also engage the business sector and the officials themselves, knowing their
demands and proposals, as they are accumulated knowledge is necessary
explode.
Additionally you can use the information technologies to provide
the provision of support services such as public safety, for example
by providing connectivity and an intelligent terminal by police.
Competitions attention should be promoted to citizens, for what is needed
invest in those units in which motivation of its employees and notes
authorities.
Political force required to overcome corporatism that are against the
technological developments because they can lose proventos or jobs. Also
It should exploit a favorable economic cycle to negotiate with unions
this aspect.
E-government actions not only relate to the technological,
but it incorporates the mission of developing "better government".
This means higher levels of efficiency and effectiveness in development
government, improve the quality of processes and reengineering of procedures,
which will increase the quality of public policies, give more and better availability
information in decision-making and implementation and reduce time periods.
Electronic government proposes to increase the degree and quality of coordination
of governance through applications, steadily
interoperable, to ensure political advertising / data privacy.
The main objectives and initiatives of e-government are: a) care
citizen; b) improve the management and integration of services, and c) the development of the
citizenship and strengthening of democracy.
99

Transforming growth into human development |

They are given the
conditions
deepen and develop
e-government.

In Uruguay they are ripe for exploring and developing the government
mail, since technological advances, the receptivity of the public
and partial experiences in both the central government and governments
departmental and state enterprises show positive results.
E-government is an efficient and effective tool to aid reform
State; Therefore, while there has been progress in the country, we believe there
to deepen its implementation. Access can be able to generate policies
develop to its full potential this tool and this opportunity.

100

| Independent Party

2. decentralization and regionalization
21. Diagnosis: decentralization
as rebalancing between central and local government
We're not talking about a decentralization against centralization; the
Decentralization is an attempt to rebalance the centralism, understood as excessive
centralization. An important element is that any process of decentralization
It should deprive the central state of its planning and guidance
policies in the country. The state remains the planner, coordinator
general; rebalance is not denationalise.
The constitutional and legal process can be analyzed Uruguay in different ways,
but generally both emphasize the strong centralist imprint from the own
State birth. Only after several attempts without significant results,
in the 1990s and the first decade of the century, decentralization has
entered on the agenda and has achieved a progressive institutional recognition and
legal.
It is part of the decentralization-deconcentration of Montevideo and highlights
importance of the constitutional reform of 1996, the institutionalization of Congress
of Mayors, the Land Act and the Decentralization Law
Politics and Citizenship, which created the third level of government.
In the same direction they are also driven programs and actions. As
Examples are the Regional Offices of the Ministry of Social Development, development plans
promoted by MVOTMA from the provisions of the Planning Act
Territorial, Rural MGAP tables, departmental intersectoral boards
MIDES, Citizen Service Centers (CAC), the -present MEC Centres
most of the towns in the interior of the country, among other initiatives. This is
add the recent incorporation of the figure of territorial representatives of various
national programs: OPP DYNAPYME and Microfinance.

To date no
observes a real
pattern of governance
relatively large
to manage a
policy framework
public.

However, to date there is no real pattern of governance is observed
relatively important for managing a public policy framework.

101

Transforming growth into human development |

All units
territorial have
opportunities for collaboration
with development, each
one in its scale.

It should analyze what possibilities of each territorial unit favor
development processes. All territorial units -the Central, departmental
provincial and municipal or are likely to collaborate with the development, each
one in its scale.
Capabilities, which now do not exist, management and strategic vision are needed to the
local society and dense tissue that produce authentic social participation processes.
The transformation of the institutional, social, economic structures and
cultural are slow. When you manage to cope with these structures to change,
you should know that what you do today will have societal effects in twenty or thirty
years. If really so, whether it would be successful.
Therefore it is necessary to raise today the changes we want to promote.

2.2. Broad
to. Generate public policies
• Ensure that the heterogeneous set of initiatives, programs and actions
decentralization will become the stimulus that our country needs to
definitely spend the field of public policy.
• This will require the government to define the basis of the type of
decentralization to which it aspires, so that all ministries act
as a common orientation.
• To the extent that government decentralization policies are generated, will be addressed
the training of human resources and material resources available
that do not exist today and without which it is impossible to process decentralizations
successful.
• To that extent also the effects of a period exceed intermittently
and contradictions both normative and concrete development
decentralization programs with intent.
102

| Independent Party

b. Have dense social fabric
• A condition of success of these processes is the formation of social fabric
dense regions and localities, able to appropriate transfers
that they are made in the decentralization process.
• This requires a major effort to integrate sectors
most deprived social.
• Among other goals, it will be necessary to overcome the so-called digital divide. The
literacy in our time is linked to the domain of the tools
allowing a minimum basic connectivity from all sectors of the
local societies.
• The consultation and negotiation between actors is another way to achieve that
density of the social fabric. Decentralization and development
Local necessarily inclusive, articulate the different rationalities
around a common horizon of local society.

A transformation
culture, in which
dependency culture
give way to a culture
autonomy and
responsibility.

• The consolidation of the social fabric also undergoes a transformation
culture in which the culture of dependence give way to a culture of
autonomy and responsibility.

c. Institutional reform process
• A decentralization process needs to enter the field of
transformation and institution building; otherwise, the formal building
becomes an obstacle to the decentralization processes.
• What must be taken into account is that these reforms are necessary but
insufficient. If there is no clear public policy, if there is no social fabric
preparations, institutional reforms will not achieve their objectives.

103

Transforming growth into human development |

2. 3. PROPOSALS
to. Regionalization to meet new challenges
Decentralization involves the assumption of responsibilities and sometimes local actors
They do not have the capacity to accept these new challenges and functions. By
It is therefore necessary to develop proposals to address these shortcomings, and one of them
regionalization is interdepartmental or conformation associations.

Regions
They constitute
an effective tool
to counter
fragmentation
and imbalance
the local level.

These joint actions emerge as a key regional government response
to meet local demands and increasingly large roles in a context of resources
few. Thus regions constitute an effective tool to
counteract the fragmentation and imbalance locally.
Actions that should be promoted:
• seek scales for economic development;
• improve the effectiveness of public policies in the territory;
• planning based on regional development peculiarities.
These actions have a remarkable potential for territorial development since
promote a more balanced and planned social and economic integration, contribute
to build consensus, promote internal cooperation, communication and processes
teaching and learning between local governments, optimize resources management
that exist at the local level, increase the scale of production and the market for
the development of productive strategies, promote the development of strategies
territory in the medium and long-surpassing the situation and obtaining continuity
beyond government-periods and involve the development of a local identity.

b. Need for a strategic plan
The strategic approach in this scenario is critical, especially when promoted
territorial development from a regional perspective. For this key instrument in
the actions associated with each departmental governments is the strategic plan.
104

| Independent Party

In Uruguay there and history of recent regionalization-region East Basin
the Carrasco stream that can be drawn some lessons to keep in mind
regionalization processes: 1) define the regions according to
value chains; 2) create a strategic plan guiding; 3) implement a unit
regional management of highly technical nature, and 4) adjusting the regulatory framework
to allow generate joint actions between departments.

c. Emphasis on local development
Facing a process of development, the territories should acquire the capacity to generate
modes own and manage development through the use of policy instruments
suitable. To advance local development in Uruguay is necessary to strengthen
territorial production systems, promote the adoption and diffusion of innovations
and knowledge to work for the institutional and cultural change.
When intervene, strategies can go through the constitution of areas
multi-actor, the revitalization of the capital, local initiative, innovation,
strengthening civil society, training for local development, promotion
local networks between public and private actors, promoting development activities
scientific and technological -vinculándolas with the premises, and production systems
strengthening the business fabric.

Promote instruments
support
entrepreneurship:
incubators, accelerators,
comprehensive assistance
entrepreneurs.

In Uruguay to target this you can generate multiple instruments, such as:
1) create business development centers; 2) promoting support instruments
-incubadoras entrepreneurship, accelerator, entrepreneurs-comprehensive assistance;
3) promoting clusters and productive linkages; 4) establish business networks;
5) Develop policies to promote local employment and qualification -Training and
training adapted to the needs of the territory and of the business centers
articulate laboral- supply and demand; 6) resume and emphasize programs
rural development; 7) promote the establishment of technology centers in the
inside the country that provide technological services to companies and various forms
incorporation of innovation in the production process; 8) promote processes
certification of labor competencies and accreditation of knowledge; 9) push
policy revaluation of heritage and culture; 10) promote the creation of
logistics centers and industrial parks, for which there are no rules but
he is cashing; 11) promote the use of participatory budgeting as a
building tool citizenship.
105

Transforming growth into human development |

d. Promote the functioning of local governments
The proper functioning of local governments -municipios- required reforms
its regulations:

Implement processes
Accountability
involving instances
participatory.

• promote the effective transfer of powers and resources to clarify the matter
Municipal and departmental and clarify the jurisdiction of the municipalities;
• implement accountability processes involving instances
participatory;
• finalize the Incentive Fund for Municipal Management;
• urge governments to build departmental budget programs
for municipalities based on clear and objective criteria;
• encourage municipalities have legal standing.

106

| Independent Party

3. PLANNING AND TERRITORIAL
3.1. Diagnosis
Recent advances
In the last 15 years from the creation of MVOTMA, Uruguay moved
substantially in the institutionalization of territorial planning.
It can be said that in 2013 the country has a fairly comprehensive legislation
land use and urban planning, is forming experts in
these materials, features new institutional developments, resources and skills
relating to land use, especially in the departmental governments,
and you are experiencing the application of a first generation of plans to regulate
uses and land use and orientation of public investments.

The shortcomings and unfinished business
Uncertainties

He warns lack of
a consensus vision
long-term territory
desirable and strategies
to build it.

Despite the outlined legal and institutional progress and the ongoing production of
first generation of plans, the lack of a consensus view long warns
term desirable territory and build strategies, both inside the country
and Montevideo metropolitan scale and the south coast.
This lack probably responds to several causes: insufficient knowledge base
lack of tradition of thinking the territory in political parties, lack of initiatives
seeking to generate broad consensus and absence of a prospective general culture.
An example of this is that in 2012 published a breakthrough MVOTMA guidelines
national discussion of which is encapsulated in government areas; therefore not
It came the political system and civil society.
107

Transforming growth into human development |

The Land Act opens up many possibilities and offers many
instruments. Still in its infancy, it is not clear picture of trends
about how effective practices of the competent governments will guide the
land use planning matters.

Shortcomings
The very lack of the Land Management Law arising from some
doctrinaire excesses-with haste and lack of realism in its drafting. Is
Variegated and regulationist excessively law in the definition of so-called
"Instruments of Land Management"; ie the categories of plans and guidelines
to formulate proposed in different scales.
On the other hand, it presents a concept of antagonistic separation between urban land and
rural land that does not recognize the features of the current mixed situations territory, and
thereby unnecessarily complicating the regulation of a variety of processes.

It records
significant absence
a national policy
for cities.

Moreover, the significant absence of a national policy for register
cities. The national government affects daily in the actual planning through its
works and indirectly through social and economic policies. Nevertheless,
It did not accompany the process of legal adoption of land use with a
their urban planning policies.
Therefore, in many ways incidence remains rather fragmentary
contribute to quality urban development.
Concern for promoting an integrated approach to land at all scales
and the recent focus of the Department of Land Management took marginalize
MVOTMA of an essential task of reflection and brainstorming on
challenges of urbanism.

108

| Independent Party

3.2. Proposals
Set out below is a selection of proposals related to the challenges of
land use and urban planning.
to. Put debated the future of the country, especially its large
dilemmas, with prospective long-term vision regarding options
development, involving the entire political system, civil society and
economic actors.

Some aspects
should consider
this policy are
contributions
revitalization
urban centers,
Consolidation
peripheries and the
modernization
transport.

b. From the national government develop a policy for cities
define a desirable urban development vision for the country and allow order
that vision with the various sectoral policies of ministries and public agencies.
Some aspects of this policy are should include contributions
revitalization of urban centers, the consolidation of the peripheries and
modernization of transport, among others.
c. Strengthen the role of the National Housing Agency (ANV) as an instrument
valid to organize and manage urban interventions of medium and large scale,
complementing departmental governments that lack the capacity and
know how to address some of these challenges.
d. Review and improve the legal framework, reforming the Law of Land Management
to simplify procedures and give a more realistic answer to the territories of
urban-rural interface, among others.
e. Enhance regional planning associated between departmental governments
and national government, using the figure of regional planning strategies
and development under the law, with a focus regionalism flexible, adapted to
priority issues and challenges in each case.

109

Transforming growth into human development |

4. PUBLIC SAFETY
4.1. Diagnosis
For years Uruguay undergoes a progressive and persistent deterioration in their quality
life as a result of growing insecurity, both from the point of
-the aumentan- objectively and subjectively crimes -Increase the feeling
danger and fear.
Analyzes and diagnoses have multiplied. Political sectors, academia,
community and successive governments have tried to understand the phenomenon and identify
their causes. The progressive loss of values, poverty and social exclusion,
the influence of drugs, lack of appropriate control action and prevention
weak offense or the course of justice have been considered determinants
growing crime and insecurity.

Public safety
it is a social phenomenon
particularly complex,
whose multicausal origin
determines how
that must be addressed.

Modern criminological schools claim that crime can not be addressed
from a reductionist and simplistic perspective as has happened since the opening
democratic. In this period he has predominated a simplistic approach to the problem of
public safety, often conditioned by ideological definitions. For
us is a particularly complex social phenomenon, whose multicausal origin
conditions the way it should be addressed.
In periods of government of the Colorado and National parties it was not possible to identify
time evidence of progressive deterioration that citizens began to suffer
in their daily safely. When the situation and it had features
concern only he managed to take partial measures, which often resulted
disjointed and contradictory, particularly guided by the philosophy of law and
order.
So, without any scientific rigor, new offenses were created and increased penalties
another, using the criminal justice system as the main tool to intervene
in public safety issues. This path, together with increasing
crime, caused the collapse of the prison system. In recent years
it was felt that the police work was directed almost exclusively to prevent

110

| Independent Party

and punish petty crimes such as theft and arrebatos- amount and groups
perceived by some sectors of the population as generators of risk, as
the young people, developing a narrow concept of security and enhancing the
selective application of the penal system, to the detriment of the most vulnerable sectors.

The action of the Ministry
Interior was
conditioned by
ideological orientation
who played the
criminal acts
as a consequence
social exclusion and
poverty, typical of
capitalist system.

During the first period of Frente Amplio government action Ministry
Interior was conditioned by an ideological orientation that interpreted the
criminal acts as a result of social exclusion and poverty,
characteristic of the capitalist system. Therefore, attention is focused on an almost exclusive
to eliminate such causes to reduce crime.
The consequences of "criminal law of emergency" were deactivated by
approval Humanization and Modernization Act of Prison System
(No. 17,897). Alongside the decree 690/80, which authorizes police repealed
stop "in investigations" clearly unconstitutional rule, however,
it should have been replaced by other suitable tools to facilitate the work
police research institute.
These actions, coupled with the disappearance of neighborhood safety and commissions
Alert neighbor, the population generated in the image of a government prescindente
Safety, with the consequent sense of vulnerability. In this context,
some positive government actions, such as the Police Code of Procedure,
They passed unnoticed by the population.
In the current administration, public safety was taken as one of the
priorities, in compliance with the broad agreements signed by all parties
Politicians in June 2010. In response to such commitments, an increase was anticipated
budget of 200 million dollars for the purpose of implementing the various measures
aimed at improving the management of the Interior Ministry, such as: 1) Reduce
gradually the service 222 200 to 50 hours per employee; 2) improve
substantial compensation from the police, with increases associated variables
compliance management commitments; 3) create more than 3,200 police positions
Executives; 4) create new units of prevention and suppression of crimes, such as
Republican Guard, the Directorate Against Organized Crime and Interpol;
5) implement a new prison policy through the creation of the Institute
National Rehabilitation; 6) adapt the prison infrastructure in order to improve
substantially the conditions of detention of persons deprived of liberty.

111

Transforming growth into human development |

In addition, the Institute of Child and Adolescent of Uruguay (INAU)
plays a key role in the management of the juvenile offenders in
therefore is responsible to implement socio-educational measures ordered by the justice
competent.
In this period there was a radical change in the management of the centers in which they are
detained youth with educational measures deprivation of liberty, which has
substantially reduced the number of leaks and implemented policy changes
social reintegration of offenders.
The creation of the Adolescent Criminal Responsibility System (ARDS) as a body
decentralized, the result of agreement of all political parties, reaffirmed policies
social integration of juvenile offenders, as well as the continuity of the
locative improvements in safety and conditions of the centers.

4.2. Proposals
The need for
implement a
True policy
State on
public safety
definitely
Address the problems
depth.

The experience of recent decades shows the need to implement a
state policy on public security definitely
Address the issues in depth, by designing a security model
democratic, modern and effective, based on the necessary technical consensus, social
and politicians. In this last period of government they have made significant progress,
although insufficient to reverse the current state of public safety.

to. Structural reform of the police institute
In our view, it is essential to address structural reform institute
Police, responding to the challenges that today's world demands in the fight against crime.
In this regard, it must reorganize its functions in five specialized areas: a)
Police Citizen, with substantial functions and maintaining public order
crime prevention; b) Judicial Police, designed to act as an auxiliary of justice
regarding research, specialized units in drug trafficking and crime
organized in crimes against persons in special crimes against the environment
or the historical, artistic, etc. heritage, economic and fiscal crimes, crimes
112

| Independent Party

and cyber crime intelligence c) International Police, which would focus
prosecution functions, coordination, prevention and investigation of crimes
international; d) Scientific Police, comprising forensic services,
identification, analysis and technical research, expert reports and documentaries;
e) Information and Intelligence, whose activity is aimed at attracting, reception,
processing, analysis and development of information necessary to maintain order,
public safety and prevent any terrorist activity.
The professional skills required for each of these areas is notoriously
different. Therefore, to achieve greater efficiency and effectiveness in meeting
the functions assigned to them, our police institute should move towards the
reorganization in these five specialized areas, with selection systems
personnel, training, coaching and performance compensation agreement
to the specific needs of each.
The ranks of the police institute should be organized in no more than seven degrees,
who enter by enabling the lowest level have the ability to access
from lower to higher-level degree by way of competitive examination
and merits, as a way to promote a true police career. It should also
established that the lower grade should be accessed through a contest
opposition.

Access from grade
lower than higher
hierarchy via the
competitive examination
and merits, as a way
promote true
police career.

Moreover, although in this period has been partially redefined the territorial management
and operations of the institution, historically related to the basic concept or
physical unit, should continue with their readjustment, considering the conditions
territorial, population and current criminal reality.
The basic units, especially the police, have enormous potential for
implement a general structure of police prevention, aimed at developing
strategies of coordination and participation of the citizenry as a substantive part
in response to the problem of public safety.
Obviously, the exploitation of this potential requires a cultural change
all affected staff, on the basis of a relationship with citizens based
the professionalism, courtesy and respect. To limit the impunity of those
They violate the law and not respecting the rights of citizens, and to address
specific issues such as gender violence or criminal offenses
for adolescents, it is essential to professionalize the police.
113

Transforming growth into human development |

In parallel with this deep structural reform, it is necessary to invest in centers
basic and advanced vocational training, restructuring their curricula,
instrumental in guiding the formation of a professional police security
public, with strong emphasis on specialization and focus on the application
of modern technology, promoting professional exchange with institutes
Successful training in security in other parts of the world.
The professionalization of police personnel requires dedicated to her
Natural task. It is therefore necessary to continue the policy of increasing their
Remuneration, with a greater weight of variable compensation depending on the
compliance management commitments.

Consolidate a model
Police dedication
without affecting the exclusive
the current income
service system
special offers
police.

Moreover, continuing the policy implemented in the current period, it should be
seek the definitive elimination of the system of overtime generated by Article
222 of Law 13,318, in order to consolidate a model of full-time police
without affecting the income that the current system of special services offered to the police.

b. Juvenile justice system
The approval of the Code for Children and Adolescents (CNA), in September 2004,
It meant a substantial qualitative change in the field of advocacy
children and adolescents, because the new legislation fully recognizes
those enshrined in the International Convention on the Rights of the Child
(CRC) adopted by the United Nations General Assembly in November
1989.
This important step determined the abandonment of tutelary assistance models
that characterized the legislation on minors, creating a new system to regulate
the status of childhood and adolescence. The conception of abandoned
minor as an object of protection to move to consider children and young people as subjects
full.
However, the ANC is subject to recurrent criticism both in the doctrinal plane
as a political, not effectively solve the procedural and substantive law issues
with respect to young offenders. The reality is that the ANC included various topics
in relation to children and adolescents, including Articles 65 to 129, which refer to the
criminal offenses committed by adolescents.
114

| Independent Party

It seems that this scanty norms responded to reasons of urgency,
Insofar as repeatedly it refers to other systems and regulations
They should be own. There is a reference to the Penal Code with contradictions
judges, prosecutors and public defenders have highlighted.
So, you can see inconsistencies due to dogmatic rules trimmed
leaving the Penal Code to solve specific problems, with clear absence of
regulation. For example, the computer was removed from aggravating existing in the Code
Criminal, which has determined that tend to equalize disparate behaviors,
causing insurmountable contradictions.
The CNA, legislatively approved without discussion behind closed lids, seems to have had
target a prototype teenager who commits a mistake and should be isolated
treated with a mixture of parental understanding and foster compassion, ignoring the
real problem of juvenile crime, which exists and deserves further operation
the question of whether you think the society and the teenager himself, so
duly internalize the negative impact of their behavior.
In short, a real system of juvenile justice is required, without the remnants of
the tutelary culture, for the sake of protection misunderstood the seriousness blurs
You should characterize a system of juvenile justice.

It requires a real
criminal justice system
juvenile, without the remnants
tutelary culture.

For these reasons, it is necessary to adopt a Code of Juvenile Criminal Responsibility
to remedy the many shortcomings in this aspect has the CNA.
Those who conceive of juvenile offenders as the main cause of the
public insecurity are mistaken. Many studies that scientifically valid
show that no real perception such support.
In fact, total juvenile offenders is in the vicinity of the 1200 young people,
the approximately 520 who they have been or are detained. The politics
developed through programs Support to Exit, Freedom and Liberty Power
Monitored and successes in promoting the inclusion of labor
young, show a substantial drop in recidivism.
Facts have proved that management problems are solved with a
better management, and spasmodic responses such as constitutional reform

115

Transforming growth into human development |

The answers
as spasmodic
constitutional reform
it intends to pursue the
Young Penal Code
not over 16 years
only do not solve the
but the problem
worse.

It intends to apply the Criminal Code to young people over 16 years-the so-called low
imputabilidad- not only not solve the problem but aggravate it.
The new tools to address the problem of juvenile delinquency
as a condition to interrupt their approach to crime, to prevent their use by
older offenders and appropriate mechanisms to promote social integration
They should be continued and deepened by a decentralized service of ARDS
I specialized. Indeed, it must be continued with investment in infrastructure
containment of adolescents in conflict with the law, ensuring conditions
appropriate, both material and in training the staff concerned.

c. Prison system
Definitely, prison work must cease to belong to the Ministry of
Interior. However, we admit as an intermediate step towards its creation as
decentralized service that the National Rehabilitation Institute be established as
a decentralized body of that. In this regard, we believe that the draft
bill submitted by the Executive Branch is an excellent contribution. Unfortunately, sleep
in the legislative field.
That proposal is consistent with our vision. Prison work must be
by a safety area prisons and other specialized in
rehabilitation and treatment of prisoners.
Uruguay needs a new prison system that not only respects the rights
human of the detainees but to promote his rehabilitation, with
the goal of social inclusion of such people and not just the non-recurrence. It has been
It said that societies should be evaluated in respect to human rights
they treat the worst or the weakest of its members, rather than the best or the strongest.
This new system should be composed of various rehabilitation centers-separated
by age, sex, the nature of their destinatarios-, with a unique address.
The work of the system must be permanently evaluated by collecting
of experience and study and open discussion of the results, in order to accumulate
knowledge to improve their performance.

116

| Independent Party

To the extent that rehabilitation may not be required, the system should include
common detention centers, where the inmates will also be given one
dignified and humane treatment.

It is more profitable for
society invest
rehabilitation
to face the
consequences of
chronic crime.

There must also be maximum security centers, to which they will go the
tried and sentenced to justify it. Finally, the system must have
appropriate and adequate material resources, based on the principle that it is more
profitable to invest in rehabilitation society to face the consequences of
chronic crime.

d. Reform of the penal system
He is currently underway at the parliamentary level, the reform of the criminal proceedings
with a view to modernize and update. The new penal process and respects
fully the principles of due process and the right of defense, should have a
reasonable time and, mainly, it must provide the judge and the prosecutor tools
agile and modern for an effective and efficient judicial investigation.
It should also enable the participation of victims or their relatives as
in the criminal process, particularly in crimes against persons, including
the domestic violence and sexual. Thus, it will enable the victim
actively participate in the development of a process in which issues are aired
affecting their fundamental rights. However, please note that
the implementation of a new system of criminal procedure involves equipping Power
Judicial human and material resources. It would be a fiasco if
back a reform of this nature should be left in abeyance.
It also is considering a reform of the Penal Code. The new Penal Code should
contemplating implementing alternative procedural mechanisms characteristic
a more rapid and effective criminal law restitutionary heavy system
main criminal justice, including alternative sentencing, reparation of the victim,
the diversion and administrative treatment of minor infractions by
arbitration and conciliation mechanisms, with the participation of trained mediators.
The implementation of alternative sentences requires the coordinated participation
various state institutions (educational and health systems, social development, etc.)
and non-state (non-governmental organizations, businesses, media).
117

Transforming growth into human development |

5. NATIONAL DEFENSE
We understand national defense policy that primary and exclusive function of
State, articulating foreign policy, following the definition of interest
national policies established by the appropriate authorities and which
institutions linked to the defense of the sovereignty, independence and
territorial integrity.

National defense
It is not an issue
exclusively military,
but involves
nationwide.

In this context, it is understood that national defense is not a matter exclusively
military, but involves the entire nation. In this regard, the crucial role of the
Armed forces is to establish itself as competent and trained institutions
to provide security against armed threats of any type that infringe
against the sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity.
Nevertheless and under the fuzzy boundary between external and internal security today
is perceived, the Armed Forces, according to their technical and organizational capabilities,
they must also be prepared to support national authorities in other
functions that are available, always within the framework of the Constitution and the law.
In recent years there has been significant progress in relation to the institutional framework
National defense. Thus, the definitions set out in the National Debate on Defense,
carried out throughout the year 2006, constitute important inputs
when making political definitions. Framework National Defence Act (No. 18,650)
It is an example of this.
But that, although important, legal framework is very general and insufficient when
to generate a public policy such as the national defense policy.

5.1. Redefinition of functions
the Ministry of National Defense
The Ministry of Defence maintains a similar structure makes 40
years, with some new management positions to which, in certain cases, there are
They have defined responsibilities and coordination with the ministerial structure. Forces
Armed are still governed by regulatory frameworks in the best have
29 years old, with a career system completely out of date.
118

| Independent Party

It is therefore necessary to redefine the Ministry of National Defense to be
become a generator of public policy. This implies the definition of a
ministerial organizational structure with three basic areas.
to. The area of ​​administrative management, also made with civilian personnel, has to do
with the administrative aspects of the management of both the Ministry and its staff
executing units as financial management and logistics.
b. The area of ​​policy planning refers to the planning and generation
these policies properly, international institutional relations
national defense and the orientation of the system of military education.
c. The third area relates to the military administration, linked to the knob
cash of the Armed Forces in compliance with the directives issued by
political authorities.

5.2. The military institution
We must equip the armed forces of both capabilities and human resources
as equipment- necessary to effectively exercise the control function and
defense of the land, sea and airspace.
This means having qualified human resources and the necessary equipment and
relevant, in order to realize a real presence, either directly or through
detection technology systems.
The military career and requirements are multi-faceted closely related. Thus the
-in terms military career professionals and academics and their pay-in
and benefits-economic terms should be two sides of the same coin.

Incorporating
personal skills
defining a type of
military leadership more
modern, flexible and
innovative.

Therefore it should define a career system that promotes professional profiles
that reward the effective exercise of the profession, as well as the incorporation
personal skills that define a type of modern military leadership,
flexible and innovative.
In this line we consider important that throughout the race, military leave
forming and incorporating technical knowledge through specialized studies,
119

Transforming growth into human development |

and even undergraduate and graduate cursados ​​both inside and outside the
military institutions. This particular situation should be taken into account
systems for promotions, as well as structuring and accessories
reductions in personal compensation.

5.3. Proposals
To achieve the necessary structural changes that are considered relevant are
propose the following areas where must pass the measures to be implemented.

Definitions of national defense policy
• For document issued National Defense Council (NDC) can be defined
clearly, according to the Constitution, the objectives and national interests,
clarifying the threats and challenges that the country ahead.

Define clearly, in
According to the Constitution,
the objectives and interests
nationals.

• According to the document, the Ministry of National Defense shall, together
the Chiefs of Defence (EMD) and the Armed Forces, the draft
National Defense Policy, the law that format will be reviewed by the CRC and
sent for study to the National Parliament.
• The EMD and the military developed the draft of the Military Policy
Defense to be reviewed by the MDN and the CDN and then forwarded
for study to the National Parliament.

Reform of the Ministry of National Defense under
reform of public administration
• It must define a new organizational structure of the MDN, establishing the
institutional competence for each specific area, as well as profiles
Professional for ministerial positions, at least, directors or deputy directors.
This should be reflected in an Organic Law of MDN.

120

| Independent Party

Reform of human management of the Armed Forces.
Senior staff
• Training officers tertiary level, so that admission to schools
complete officer training school required.

Undergraduate and
graduate as a requirement
to advance
in the military.

• undergraduate and graduate studies as a condition for progress in the military.
• Military career based on three pillars: professional, academic and paid.
All it articulated with a logic that tends to promote a military profile
leadership skills, solid military-both formal knowledge in
other areas of knowledge-and with a level of remuneration commensurate.

121

Transforming growth into human development |

122

| Independent Party

TECHNICAL EQUIPMENT

123

Transforming growth into human development |

124

| Independent Party

INDEPENDENT PARTY Program for the period 2015 - 2020 has been formulated by teams of technicians:
Secretary of Program:
Head of Social Area:
Area Responsible State:
Responsible Economic Area:
Aboy, Rossana
Alberti, Ricardo
Algorta, Paulina
Alvarez Luciano
Apecech Martin
Arbuet, Heber
Armstrong, Richard
Aroztegui, Dina
Arroyo Alvaro
Bagnulo Homer
Baptista, Ayiyú
Barboza, Claudio
Barreda, Heloise
Bayo, Leonidas
Bervejillo Federico
Besio Felix
Bonansea, Nelson
Bonasso, Alejandro
Brito, Liber
Bruzzone, Carmen
Burgos, Dalile
Burgos, Gerardo
Burgos, Juan Pablo
Burgess, Ana Ines
Burgess, Nicholas
Cajarville, Juan Pablo
Calfani, Marisel
Canel, José Luis
Carrasco Andres
Castagnola, José Luis
Colombo, Juan

Castaldi, Carlos
Lasida Javier
Ramos, Conrado
Vaillant, Marcel
Craigdallie, Juliana
Dagnino, Manuel
Dall'Orso, Juan Pablo
De Castro, Francisco
De Leon, Alejandro
De Lucia Pamela
Del Castillo, Carlos
De Sanctis, Osvaldo
Demarco, Mariella
Destich, Elizabeth
Diaz Carlos
Diaz, Raul
Dieste, Enrique
Donnagelo Paul
Duarte, José
Espinoza, Diego
Flores Colombino, Andrés
Frydman Jose
Gaiero, Luciano
Galaschi, Enzo
Garcia, Ana Cristina
Gatto, Hebert
Gatto, Renzo
Gervaz, Manuel
Gilles, Mireille
Gomez de Freitas Ramón
Ramagli Gonzalez Alberto
Gonzalez Rios, Luis
Gross Francisco
Henry, Horacio
Irastorza, Alejandra

Irigoyen, Rodolfo
Jimenez de Arechaga, Miguel
Lamas Alvaro
Landechea Sebastian
Lazarus, Miguel
Lema, Ricardo
Lezue, Beatriz
Lopez, Ademar
Mandl, Alfredo
Marsiglia, Javier
Martelletti, Eduardo
Quaglia Martinez Hugo
Martony, Juan
Melgarejo, Esteban
Mendez, Juan Jose
Mieres, Alejandro
Mieres, Gustavo
Mieres, Paul
Migues, Washington
Monzon, Darwin
Morales, Juliana
Nicodella, Dornley
Napoléon, Marta
Olmedo, Damaso
Orrico, Valeria
Paolino, Carlos
Peguri, Alfredo
Perez del Castillo, Gonzalo
Perez del Castillo, Guillermo
Perez, Daniel
Perez Rodino, Roberto
125

Porras, Ignacio
Posada, Ivan
Prieto, Ruben
Puppo, Gabriel
Quesada, Gustavo
Radius, Daniel
Reolon, Luis
King, Grazzia
Rilla Jose
Rodriguez, Enrique
Rodriguez, Juan Carlos
Romero Gorski, Sonnia
Sabella, Alejandro
Sammarco, Carlos
Sanchez, Rosario
Sanner García, María Gracia
SARUBBO, Graciela
Sauval, Philippe
Schlegel, Gustavo
Secco, Joaquín
Serrentino, Antonio
Severi, Cecilia
Soler Gabriel
Sosa, Heriberto
Stolovich, Rebeca
Torres, Paola
Tortorella, Alfredo
Trochon, Ivette
Urraburu Angel
Vaillant, Denise
Zaffaroni, Cecilia

Transforming growth into human development |

126

| Independent Party

127

Transforming growth into human development |

HEADQUARTERS
July 18, 2015
Tels .: 2402 0120 - 2409 5185
info@partidoindependiente.org.uy
www.partidoindependiente.org.uy

128
