GOVERNMENT PROGRAM

"That all may progress and that nobody is left behind; the conditions to
born not determine your destiny "

A country progresses possible. We can build it, we want to achieve and deserve
have it. We have a plan and know how to do.

Venezuelans deserve more, we have a lot of time waiting for our
problems are solved but we have not seen results. We deserve a
life better and to working together, we join the same way and is, for
all stages of life, a way that goes forward.

We have been touring the country, listening to the Venezuelan people, and we have had
with the participation of experts in all areas to develop a proposal that
provide equal opportunities for all. These meetings have allowed us to articulate
our government program with a structure based on the life cycle of each
one of us, one that responds to the needs of people and which is cyclo
able to develop the capacities of all.

The policies of our government will aim to offer shares and profits,
address the problems of people with solutions. No abstractions, without looking for someone

blame, but taking responsibility and taking action that will
allow live peacefully. So the cycle of life becomes a vehicle for
people can see how we can all make progress according to the stage in which
found. But mainly know that within these stages also may
project your future, the future of their loved ones and at the same time, understand
your needs.

We believe we can win that we deserve. We have the capabilities,
and potential strategies. Venezuelans deserve to have a quiet life, without
afraid to go out, that money we get with effort to reach us
our needs and save for what we project our future,
We find the products we need. We deserve a government capable of
provide basic services, facilitating the daily life and not filled with obstacles a
governance responsive to citizens. A government that does what you need to do
because it knows how to do and does it well, without waiting for applause in return for bribes
political and partisan play in hopes of Venezuelans.

We speak of a government that uses the power to serve and not to control, a government
in the service of people and you see people in the will of the people and not a
personalist excuse to start a process. Yes, the Power as an instrument for
serve. That is why our Government Plan has five clear objectives, that all
government must assure the people that put their hopes in a project:
Education, health, safety, housing and employment.

We are convinced that doing so is possible, because we know what to do and how
do what. With the participation of hundreds of experts from around the country and taking into
account what we learned and heard in our communities tours
Venezuela all, we have developed this government program depending on the route
Family life and each of its members and, in particular path
those who have more obstacles to progress. Always in order to identify
poverty traps, prevent family members from falling into them,
reintegrate and assist those who can not fend for themselves.

The way of life has been divided into five stages of progress: Attention
MCH;

living place

Y

their

environment;

Education

Y

Developing;

Employment

Y

Entrepreneurship; and Health and Social Security. And the way we have divided into four
conditions: Democratic Coexistence; Security; Social Protection and Family
State Reform and Decentralization. As illustrated in Scheme A
then each of these stages comprises areas of expertise
subordinate to the main objective: to make each stage of the journey is another step
Progress for all.

In the pages that follow, synthesize these five stages and four
road conditions fundamental aspects of our proposal. More than a
Government program, these elements represent a program that will enable the
development of every Venezuelan and, with that, the entire country. It is not a proposal

centralist but, on the contrary, a vision of society that allows and requires
adapted to the particularities of each state, each town, each community
and every person.

It aims to bring solutions to all equally. As deputy mayor and
I have been governor, I have an experience of government that allows me
fully understand the need to work together and bring the power and
solution to the citizen. I know that societies can not advance and so divided
This government program also invites us all to join our energies.

This government plan, so this opportunity to defeat the hope
fear, so this common project.

God bless Venezuela!
Henrique Capriles

"We all deserve access conditions that allow each stage
We achieve the goals that are part of a life "

Maternal and child care
Our commitment is that every child is born in safety
optimal conditions for growth and development, without limitations imposed by
Food and adverse socioeconomic conditions. The conditions at birth
can not determine your destiny and that of your family.
In our country there are a lot of women who are, in turn, mothers, bosses
home and source of livelihood. And they are fighting the battle alone to get his
family forward. Our commitment is to have all communities
networks of support and assistance to ensure adequate living conditions for
children and facilitate the work of mothers.

Progress requires all ensure optimum conditions for development in
early stages of life. This is only possible if we take as a priority
care for pregnant women and their children.

A responsible government is working to provide an education that provides skills
life for everyone equally and promote initiatives that integrate actions in the
officer, family and media education.

In this way we can prevent adolescent pregnancy are early
age and, at the same time, we can prevent sexually transmitted diseases and
its consequences. Venezuela is the country with the highest number of pregnancies
South America adolescents: nearly 1 in 4 births is less than 19 years.
In addition, 1 in 100 births is less than 15 years. We aim to reduce
early pregnancy and negative consequences for the mother and
to the kid.

The attention of women from before conception is part of the first stage
Progress. It is essential to raise the level of health conditions during the
gestation process and bring this stage elapsed in an environment without violence.

Also, ensure that births are attended in safety and reduce
rates of maternal, infant and child mortality. Every child must be assured
born in a suitable environment that offers opportunities for growth and
develop, without limitations imposed by socioeconomic conditions.

We will increase the attention of children under five years. In this period occurs the
changes that determine the child's growth and development of certain capacities
many of the cognitive and personality traits.

We will ensure every child immunizations control with regularity
established according to age, in the primary care network, in order to reduce

preventable, infectious, respiratory and diarrheal diseases. Likewise, through
specific policy, we will ensure that every child receives a supply
adequate complementary and gradually incorporate to the adult diet.

We will ensure that all women, in every region of the country, have effective access to
the primary care network. Access is assured through public-private partnerships for the provision of food and other basic goods.

The country has a high percentage of single mothers who are heads of households. Women
incorporated into the labor market requiring expect support and assistance networks
during aging, capable of guaranteeing the fundamental management practices
childcare and thus facilitate the work of these mothers.

Together we can do: maternal and child care should be linked to different
actors in society. State, unions, academia, private sector organizations
social, community leaders and the general community will actively participate in
the proposed solutions and the implementation of the various forms of care
mother and child.

"You're quiet when you have security, but also when you have the
basic services, public spaces, jobs and opportunities. Those
are the conditions to make the country "

Housing and environment
Our commitment is that your home is of quality. Not enough to build
housing: it is necessary to do so in safe environments, with regular access and
Reliable public and private services, which have close systems
fast, comfortable, safe and are close to transport to schools
children and young people to exercise their right to education.

The family is the basic unit of society and its progress. Develop a policy
National housing that guarantees the participation of different sectors of the State and
the private sector, according to their skills. This policy must respond in
housing material through the mass of serviced plots and
empowering neighborhoods, and serve more than 3 million people without
They have a home and to those whose homes are poor and do not have
basic services.

All Venezuelan families should have a safe and comfortable home,
located in a healthy environment and regular and reliable access to
quality. Also, households must have access to transportation systems
fast, comfortable and safe public. No less important than this is the proximity of

housing quality schools, so that children are guaranteed access to
education, and the jobs to keep people working for
their communities and seeing them grow.

Venezuela needs modern, with safe and efficient road network cities
allowing the integration, productivity and development of the country, and they are accompanied
an efficient, modern, comfortable and safe public transport. Will have a
effective public policy on road infrastructure and public transport, making
Special emphasis on preventive and corrective maintenance of all the National Network
urban and agricultural road, which today is incomplete and damaged.

Regarding the electricity sector, we will have a preventive maintenance plan and
execute projects of generation, transmission and distribution to allow rescue
and expand electricity supply and eliminate the long and frequent cuts today
affect the quality of life of Venezuelans and the country's productivity.

Venezuela will have a national environmental policy, with direct participation
State, which will focus on prevention and mitigation of pollution
bodies of water, soil and air. This policy will be combined with management programs
Risk, geared to both prevent the occurrence of disasters and to encourage the
timely and efficient emergency response in all its phases.

"Prevention begins with education. Where there is a school, there no
violence "

Education and development
Our commitment is to ensure access to education. All children,
adolescents and young people are entitled to a school near your home and
this requires build many schools. We will provide education
quality. Schools have the right to ensure, for everyone,
learn to read, write, master mathematics, have regional identity and
national, think for itself and acquire the values ​​that teach us to do
always get it right. And a useful instruction, in which what is learned in
school serves for life. We are entitled to an education that helps us to be
better people and better Venezuelans to prepare us to have a job
worth and to achieve our independence as individuals.

For there to be progress for everyone, we have to get Venezuelans
have access to quality educational institutions, which are to
good teachers. Everyone has the right to form ourselves intellectually, physically and
morally from school to university. Education makes us free,
productive, responsible and enables us to develop the project of life
we want.

We believe in an education centered on the person, in a comprehensive education,
permanent and quality, promoting creativity and entrepreneurship,
rooted in our culture and world and new technologies.

Our Government Plan includes the following strategic guidelines
combine harmoniously the areas of Education, Culture, Physical Activities,
Recreation and Sport Science, Technology and Innovation:
• Quality education for all student-centered since its inception.
• Progress Culture, rooted in our identity and open to the world.
• Sport as an integral part of the development of the individual and the country.
• Science, technology and innovation to increase productivity and improve the quality of
life.
• Management of the environment as a key component of progress.

One of the priorities of our national agenda is the consensus building
a large national educational project. This project will be tuned to the
current challenges, with the new realities and possibilities, with the advance of the
science and technology, the requirements and expectations of students and teachers,
and especially with the urgent need to contribute from education to
Progress of all Venezuelans alike.

For Venezuelans have access to quality education, we develop
a modern and appropriate to the demands of the processes of educational infrastructure
teaching / learning. We build, repair and maintain an amount
important for educational institutions to cater to the student population
current and which are excluded, especially in the levels of initial education and
average: 800 care centers talking about 400 preschoolers and 1,000 schools. Also
We update the curricula of all educational programs
ensure training in skills specific to each level, as well as
develop some labor and entrepreneurial skills. We will have
teachers and well prepared and highly motivated teachers, then develop
training programs designed to strengthen and upgrade the teaching profession
transparent mechanisms for entry and promotion.

Venezuelan university will be the great ally to achieve progress for all
Venezuelans. The university sector will have a budget that allows fair
develop and offer quality programs for training, updating and
professional development, as well as carry out their activities
research, innovation and expansion necessary for progress and development of all
the country. We create programs to finance entrepreneurs and innovators are
they encourage partnerships between academia and economic and social environment, and create
tax incentives for the implementation of technology-based companies.

We are convinced that there is no education without culture, why we develop
varied, interesting and cultural programs for all alike, that serve to
promote creativity, diversity and civic education, and at the same time
meet current network of museums and cultural centers, allowing them to grow and have
extramural presence in communities. Another primary shares will be
encourage cultural and creative industries as a source of jobs and quality
entrepreneurship, supporting national creators and allowing set
necessary connections for our cultural products, all areas
involving the creative act, they are known by Venezuelans and the rest of
world. It is also necessary to settle the debt owed technology to culture,
activating networks of libraries and cultural centers updated and tailored to the
modern initiatives, to help disseminate effectively work
our writers, musicians, artists, exponents and creators in general, putting all the
potential national structure linked to the cultural fact in the service of
Venezuelans and for the dissemination of the genius of our makers and all that
They do for our identity.

We develop various public spaces and facilities that allow us
promote sports and culture in communities. The program of activities
physical, recreational and sports development are essential tools
full of Venezuelans. Full support of the inherent executive structure
will ensure access, monitoring and technological upgrading of our athletes
high performance, and selected members of the champions of Venezuela,

wherever they put into practice their disciplines. Support for selections
State Authority is guaranteed, meaning that lies in the decentralization of the
successful as possible, at the same time that culminate, restored and initiate works
sports infrastructure that we need to attend to the sport in a way
modern, able to develop the skills of our athletes in a way
truly optimal and at the same time the communities how to get
linked to high performance sport, thanks to sports development as a
active in urban and rural centers.

We know it is in schools where the state should emphasize their elders
efforts: schools will become the core of sports overcrowding, with
based on social values ​​and as a promoter of holistic health.

In our government quality education will be the lever for progress of each
Venezuelan and provide equal opportunities for all.

"Venezuelans need efficient employment policies, because where there
quality employment with hunger never touch the door "

Employment and entrepreneurship
Our commitment is to have more and better opportunities to make the
emphasis on job seekers for the first time in older adults.
We will create millions of jobs, but not any need to create
quality jobs, stable and well paid, because then you can develop your
talents, because you want to work on what you like, because you deserve to have a
quality employment.

Venezuelans know that employment is Progreso. So if we create jobs
quality Venezuelans have the opportunity to have a better life,
the path to progress and achieve peace and tranquility that
We aspire.

Together we do better, with policies that create an environment of trust between the
more public and private sector jobs will be created and will be quality jobs.

Through the Regional Forces of Progress resources and take advantage
powers offered by our country and we will implement measures to revive the
create industrial parks and production facilities as the strengths of each region.

Investments will promote better use of resources in regions
establishing productive development networks of employers, providing
easier access to productive credit and tax incentives for
entrepreneurs and new investment. Our primary target in
It is the economic and social advancement of all Venezuelans alike, with a view to
economic independence. We can not rely exclusively on the progress
distribution of oil wealth. Oil can and should be the lever
progress in the transformation and diversification of the country.

Today there are major obstacles to the development of the
private enterprise and the creation of productive jobs. So we designed a
Employment Plan for All seeks to encourage public-private cooperation in areas
keys, undertake a plan of construction, repair and maintenance
public infrastructure across the country, promote the training of the workforce,
promote the employability of young people and older adults and encourage
popular entrepreneurship through advice and access to credit for training,
expansion and formalization of micro and other forms of organization
economic.

Our commitment is to have a strong economy, which has many new
businesses that generate many jobs. It is about making our strong production
national through a transparent, responsible and sustainable economic policy

encourage investment, raise the purchasing power of all Venezuelans and generate
quality jobs.

"When people have the will to succeed no obstacle
I can stop it. I want health for all Venezuelans first "

Health and social security
Our commitment is to have a health care system that will help you, really,
cope with contingencies of life, offering the same options and
opportunities for all in terms of care, provision of medicines and
quality of care received.

Health is a fundamental right, and that is progress for everyone,
we must ensure quality medical services.

Venezuelans deserve to have, from birth, with conditions
basic life cast the foundations of their future development. The State must provide
the conditions for the place where we are born does not become a constraint that
determine the development of our potential.

To raise the quality of life and welfare of all Venezuelans, our plan
government will guarantee everyone access to a supportive social security system,
responsible and efficient. We believe in a health policy focused on the citizen,
to provide inclusive health system accessible to all, non-discriminatory and
quality.

The policies of our government will aim to offer shares and profits,
address the problems of people with solutions, not abstractions. Therefore, we
a plan in the short term, will rehabilitate a total of 82 medical buildings
care all across the country, the scope of coverage in terms
covering a population of 7 million citizens. In the medium term, the policy
Health strongly encourage the promotion of local strong health systems,
competent and able to sustain those programs and health care services
require that all Venezuelans. In the long run, we promote management
regional and local levels, with a central steering by the Ministry of Health.

Our commitment is to ensure social security system, which offers the
seniors' quality of life that we all deserve to enjoy life after
of effort and work.

"There are many more things that unite us than divide us"

Democratic Coexistence
We are convinced that only in a context of effective democracy is
Progress possible. For this we propose to consolidate a State
decentralized, transparent, pluralistic, respectful of the constitution, laws,
human rights, the powers of the other branches, peace and legality
International. A State using its powers to the progress of
citizens, institutions dedicated to materialize and realize the
rights which are enshrined in the constitution and ensure equal
everyone equally before the law. For this we need strong institutions,
democratic, functional and engaged with each other, regardless of
government.

State refund respectful and promoter of political and social diversity,
gender equality and coexistence between different political positions and even
conflicting. We will encourage Venezuelans to contribute, each in his
space to build a country with opportunities for advancement for everyone
equal.

To achieve this we have a plan that includes all of us:
• Ensure respect for the government and their powers and the
harmonious cooperation between them to achieve the goals of the State.

• You will need despartidizar our Bolivarian National Armed Forces and
strengthen its key role in the development and progress of the country.
• Establish democratic institutions and respect for the rule of law
mainstreamed in all entities and public agencies exercise,
as tools of that year.
• Depoliticise access to public information to promote freedom of
• expression and ensure the breadth and variety of news coverage,
pluralism, open debate of ideas and free access to information.
• Ensure compliance with human rights and encourage their promotion, protection and
materiality, strengthening institutional and respect logic in all entities
State.
• Eliminate illegitimate government barriers to political and social participation and
ensure their smooth and free development through all forms of organization.
• Define and establish our strategic international alliances based on the
peace, welfare and advancement opportunities for all Venezuelans.

"Venezuelans deserve to live in peace, to walk our streets,
enjoy the public space "

Security
We are committed to you. Our commitment is to you and your family
feel secure and safe. Without fear, without fear, without anxiety. Let's go to
have zero tolerance for violence, crime and impunity.

A country for Progress is a country for life. In our government we will
deal to build the country we want and deserve.

The progress and welfare of all are possible only when there is respect, hope,
solidarity, tolerance and exercise of rights and duties by laws that are fair
and fulfilled for all.

All Venezuelans have the right to live in peace, and responsibility
State delegated offer citizens a peaceful and free of violence context
so that everyone can progress. Therefore, our commitment is to put order with
Zero tolerance towards violence, crime and impunity. Ending
insecurity requires us to make a coordinated effort, by providing solutions
truly effective and not just police, so we believe it is a problem
complex to be addressed through appropriate and coherent policies
respond to the reality of the country. So we must:

• Apply the law without exclusions or privileges.
• Tackling crime with respect for Human Rights.
• Attend all components of public safety (prevention, police,
criminal justice and prison system), working together and in collaboration with
all public authorities.
• Attacking the causes of criminal phenomenon: provide opportunities for all of
stay out of crime.
• The tranquility of Venezuelans is above political differences and
partisan: to work with everyone in the solution of the problem and protect all without
distinction. Therefore we have proposed:
or stop the growth and decisively reduce the number of violent deaths: in
2011, 19,336 Venezuelans were killed by the mob.
or stop the growth and reduce the occurrence of other crimes:
Kidnappings have increased significantly since 1999.
Thefts, with special emphasis on vehicle theft. In Venezuela
producing more than a million annually theft.
Illegal possession of weapons: most homicides (79.48%), robbery
(73.95%) and kidnappings (79.16%) are committed with firearms.
Domestic violence against women: in 2011, 535 women were
He murdered by their partners and the Public Ministry received 126 425 complaints
gender violence.

• Eliminating the weapons from our streets: seize and destroy illegal weapons and
adequately control the lawful possession of these: on the streets of Venezuela
circulating over 6 million illegal firearms.
• Control and prevent trafficking and micro-trafficking.
• Ending the culture of lawlessness and crime tolerance: establish a relationship of
Confidence among Venezuelans and their institutions, and raise the expectation
Justice at all levels:
Win or impunity: now exists in Venezuela a global index of impunity
91, 27%.
or Venezuelans distrust of the police and justice. Many
unreported crimes: the average denunciabilidad crimes revolves around
30%.
• Overcoming the factors that encourage crime through a strong policy
Prevention:
or ensure access to opportunities for all children and youth.
or Retrieve and create public spaces and infrastructure.
Zoom or state services to Venezuelans: services today
government have a very limited scope.
o Establish care programs for children and adults on the streets, to the
women victims of violence, and young people in danger of falling into the
crime.

o Have a comprehensive and coordinated system against crime, involving
all state organs involved and all levels políticoterritoriales:
Planning: implement an effective security plan, structured, well
built and integrated throughout the country.
Coordination: work together with all authorities and agencies involved
to solve problems.
Partisanship of security: work with all authorities and
communities for the safety of all Venezuelans equally, regardless
its political trend.

We take responsibility as a government, and the Presidency of the Republic,
to protect the life, personal integrity and property of all Venezuelans
equally, without distinctions. A country for Progress is a country for life. In our
government we will deal to build the country we want and deserve.

"Progress is to be sure that the future will be much better than today"

Social protection for the family
Social policies aim to give people access to a
set of goods and services in the areas of education, health, employment,
social security and housing. However, there are people who fail to take
access to these goods and services.

Faced with this situation a complementary social policy aimed at reversing is necessary
deprivation that generate exclusion and, therefore, violate the rights of
people.

Our policy focuses on a social protection system that so
articulated, will make families facing special situations of vulnerability
materialized see the full exercise of their social rights without any
discrimination.

To do this, we have proposed the following:
• universalize all social rights, valuing diversity and including
territorial, cultural and social.
• Eliminate access barriers to progress and well-being with equity and
all forms of discrimination throughout the life cycle.

• ensure participation of all political subjects from a
democratic, plural and solidarity perspective.

This system consists of three components. The first is institutional, which
seeks to strengthen the state structure. The second consists of a group of
programs and services to assist families in vulnerable
through interconnected programs:
• Program transfer of resources aimed at families in condition
extreme poverty, including children and adolescents in educational services and
health, and adults on the job training.
• Programs first job, second chance and entrepreneurship, aimed
to expand opportunities for progress for all Venezuelans.
• Red family care, to support householders to develop in their
capabilities, employed and generate income so they can progress and live
quiet.

Finally, there is the networking component of care and protection:
• Network of Protection of Rights, which includes all instances for
promoting a culture of peace, dialogue and immediate care for
social rights restitution nearby communities: Justices of the Peace,
protection tips, house women and defenders.

• Guidance Center Network and Family Support, which will strengthen the work of the network
Protection of rights addressing psychosocial problems through
School support programs such as family life project skills
life, psychosocial care and social support.
• Restitution of Rights Network services and programs worked hand in hand with
social and grassroots organizations, to meet people in the street,
people who have served time, young people in an open environment regime between
others.

"The government should not be a counselor and a controller"

State Reform and Decentralization
We know that a public administration should serve the
citizens, allied with the progress and development, functional institutions
and guarantees of fair coexistence and equal conditions for all
Venezuelans.

We will build a state in which the challenges are attended by a team where
all participate, where Venezuelans resolve their problems through
closest to your local authorities. This is what we call Decentralization
Effective, which allows us the optimization and efficient use of human resources
and materials across the country to solve the problems of Venezuelans in each
one of their communities. A state composed of solid, functional and entities
a strong and independent institutions of the ideological trend of government
turn, with values ​​like:
• Efficiency in the delivery of public services: a transparent state, not
tolerate corruption and use public resources efficiently, so
transparent and for the benefit of Venezuelans.
• Right of effective demand: an ally State of the citizen, in which there is
possibility of claims and timely response to poor delivery
services, omissions and abuses.

• A State to ensure legal certainty and the right of everyone to
pick your way exerting his will, and autonomy under rules
clear and without impositions.
• A promoter abiding state and private property.
• A State at the service of Venezuela and the country's development: generator
certainty, confidence and stability.
• A State articulating solutions, promoter and facilitator of investment and
developing.

Refund a decentralized state in which each authority, from space
and defined and shared responsibilities, do your job and let the
troubleshooting and service delivery in harmony and equality
conditions in all states and localities in Venezuela.

We will ensure

the

simplification

Y

easing

from

activities

Y

procedures,

We will materialize the right of petition effective (reducing response times,
administrative culture of closeness and support to the citizen) and we will use the
current powers of the national executive to meet progress goals for
right of all Venezuelans.

Generating dismantle bureaucratic structures of corruption and inequality,
creating a climate of certainty and confidence from the Government to encourage investment,
job creation and opportunities.

Will brake the increasing centralization and concentration of power and solutions in the
figure of the president, enhancing and strengthening decentralization, respecting
powers of the states and municipalities, with a conception of governance
articulated with mayors and governors across the country. Apply the
effective decentralization concept of optimizing human resources and
materials throughout the country, with equitable distribution of power and
responsibilities so that no citizen inside the country needs to move
Caracas for errands and solving everyday problems.

OUR FIRST 100 DAYS OF YOUR PROGRESS
These first hundred days of Progreso are the beginning of a path that will pass
together, they are a call to encounter, real reconciliation among Venezuelans. But
not only political reconciliation, but the union turned into a force in a
guarantee an example. Venezuelans want change, a new way of
politics.
Throughout our travels through the towns of Venezuela we have acquired a
commitment to every Venezuelan and immediate solutions to their problems.
It is time for Venezuela to find its way. It's time for a project capable of
summon all. We have a transparent government plan and view.
• Our first 100 days Progress allow the difference between words and
lies, between promises and commitments, but especially among the confrontations
empty and real solutions for everyone.
• Our first 100 days of Progress will make the difference between making it feel
fear every moment and a government for which the life of each of us is
sacred and is protected by the state, in an organized fight, effective and
standing against crime and delinquency.
• Our first 100 days of Progress will allow Venezuelan families
knowing that we open the door to future teamwork and building trust,
creating the conditions to live peacefully with new employment opportunities.

• Our first 100 days Progress serve public employees, workers
State enterprises and beneficiaries of missions to know that their
conditions are not only maintained but have been improved, thanks to the
Will the new government and a new way of doing politics.
Our actions to make our first 100 days Progress are:
SAFETY FOR ALL
• Debugging of the police.
• Home of the disarmament and destruction of illegal weapons.
• Starting the process of formation of 20,000 new police and reallocation of escorts
their police functions.
• Creation of the Fund for the provision of technology, equipment and modernization
our safety and security bodies: police officers, firefighters, Civil Protection.
• Starting the transformation of the prison system to ensure conditions
worthy of confinement and reducing overcrowding.
• All support the judiciary and the Public Ministry to end impunity
in the country.
EMPLOYMENT FOR ALL
• Increase the minimum wage to 3,625 Bs.F and adjust as inflation levels.
• Creation of the Fund for Employment of young and older adults: Bs. 2,500
millions.

• Home of over 300 agreements expired collective agreements in the sector
Public and early cancellation of labor liabilities.
• Ensure the approval process of our Social Security Force
Armada.
• Starting the process of securitization of land from farmers and ensure
placing their crops.
TOGETHER BUILDING YOUR PROGRESS
National Investment Plan: Generate new employment opportunities with quality
develop 100,000 new jobs in the first 100 days.
• Community Works
22,000 or more social projects identified by the communities is start,
including: arrangement of ditches and sewage, road repair,
lighting, courts, schools and clinics.
• Education:
Start of work or maintenance and repairs required by the
educational infrastructure.
• Bless you:
or conditioning Staffing and 82 hospitals throughout the country in the areas:
surgical, delivery room, emergency and intensive care.
Performances of works of maintenance and recovery centers
diagnosis and primary care.

• Roads:
or recovery plan of the main road network in the nation, including roads
Agricultural: make patching and recovery of lighting in the motorway network and
trunks.
• Public transport:
or renewal of the national public transport network with the acquisition of 15 000
new units.
• Electricity:
o Start Implementation Plan 2013-2018 National Electrical performance: complete
primarily the works of 22 power generation projects and 28
key transmission projects in the Plan.
Removing or electrical fines middle class sectors and popular.
• Water:
or develop works for the maintenance and treatment of the main mass of
Water country and assure optimal stations
pumping and purification.
• Oil:
o Maintenance and investments for the optimal functioning of our industry
oil.
Committed to you: MISSIONS AND SOCIAL PROGRAMS
• Delivery of the ticket for food and medicines for the elderly.
• Home Zero Hunger Plan.

• Child Care: Home of the selection process, conditioning
homes and care mothers training child care program
daytime.
• Living place:
or resolve the situation of the more than 25,000 Venezuelan families
in shelters.
or regularize the ownership of housing, by securitizing the
and granted housing grant.
o Ensure the rights of Venezuelans registered in the national registers
housing.
OIL FOR YOUR PROGRESS
• No more gifts are delivered to other countries. Oil resources should be directed
to address the problems of Venezuelans.

PLAN OF EMPLOYMENT FOR ALL
STABILITY AND NEW OPPORTUNITIES FOR PROGRESS
COMMITMENT
• We are committed to employment, because employment is progress, employment is
Tranquility. Who has a job with quality, quiet walks to progress.
• Our commitment is that there is work for everyone equally. We will create 3
million quality jobs. A quality job is well-paid, it is
stable, with benefits and growth prospects. To achieve this, we have a
plan.

Quality employment
• Have your salary reaches you.
• That you have chance of promotion based on your effort.
• May you have to save and support to achieve your goals (like a car or a
housing) and to cover an emergency (such as an accident or illness).
• What your rights and benefits are respected, without privileges, without discrimination
policy.
• What if you reached effort to train you, your title will not remain "catching dust."
• Have a retirement.

GOALS
Commitment: over 3,000,000 new quality jobs in 6 years
• Build quality 500,000 jobs per year.
• To grow between 6 and 7% per year: an economy growing at 7% for 10 years
doubles in size in real terms.
• The purchasing power increases because you have a better pay and because
We control inflation.

EMPLOYMENT PLAN FOR ALL
THREE STEPS TO A BETTER FUTURE:
1. Creating more and better opportunities
Teaming up with public-private effort to generate
3,000,000 jobs in six years, and build an atmosphere of trust
to ensure the stability of those already employed.
• Promoting trust and partnership between the public and private sector,
end expropriations and ensure legal stability to attract more
investments.
• Implement the regional forces to revive Progress
create industrial parks and manufacturing facilities leveraging the strengths of
each region.
• Direct public investment projects that create jobs and improve the lives of
Venezuelans. The Infrastructure Plan allowed to finish projects without
complete, and maintain public works and services for the economy

(as

transport and roads) and Venezuelans (such as education, health and housing).
• To stimulate entrepreneurship in small and medium enterprises with the plan "My
own business "to facilitate access to credit and training.

2. Remove obstacles to your progress
Breaking down the barriers that exclude young and older adults the possibility
to get a job, to have institutions for training and development
of all benefits and to face difficult times such as unemployment or
disability.
• Implement training in the areas of specialty
It requires regional development.
• Provide incentives to companies to hire young people through
First Job program.
• Establish special schemes reduced working hours, pay and benefits
specific labor for hiring more personnel 60,
by Valuing Experience program.
• Create the Municipal Employment Office which will bring job seekers and
companies seeking employees.
• ensure social security to all workers.
3. A salary range to get ahead
Control inflation so that you win with your effort and you can reach
progress, and have social security and the benefits that go with you
difficulties.
• To control inflation and promote domestic production using so
responsible public resources: and achieve a Strong Economy.

• Provide tax incentives and easier access to credit for companies
empower employees to improve their productivity and consequently increase
wages.
• Ensure the supply of basic products to promote products
"Made in Venezuela" for domestic consumption and export.
• Improve the coverage and quality of public services such as health, education and
security and thus reduce an expense to families.

That more and better opportunities

• Between 2001 and 2011, the number of employers in Venezuela rose from 630 000 to 430
one thousand. This loss employers 200,000 is primarily due to the destruction
small and medium enterprises, and can translate into the loss of more than one
million quality jobs.
• A country that does not grow, can not create jobs: between 1999 and 2010, Venezuela
was the country with the lowest per capita economic growth among the seven countries
largest in Latin America.
• A country that does not invest, can not grow: between 1999 and 2009, Venezuela received 16
FDI times less than the average of the other seven countries
largest in Latin America.
• Venezuela is the worst country in Latin America to start a business:
17 achievable steps need 141 days.
• The central government has discouraged investment: they have involved more than 1,000
companies since 2004, and most are still without compensation.
• At the end of 2011, 6.2 million Venezuelans have no formal employment: 1.2
million and 5.05 million unemployed workers are informal, ie
who they have a stable job and does not have the benefits and protections
law. Since 1999, about 1 million workers joined the industry
informal. Venezuelans who have no formal employment is 47% of the workforce
labor.

TOGETHER

LO

WE DO

BEST:

FORCES

REGIONAL

PROGRESS

The progress, welfare and quality jobs should emerge around the country. Come on
to create areas of productivity and quality of life according to the resources
We have in Venezuela. Regional Forces are Progreso. The resources we
offers our country are enough to create many quality jobs, good
living areas with education, services, public recreation areas and quiet
to be sure.

Regional task forces of progress are all together because we do
best: the central government directs and facilitates; regional governments monitor and
activated; people and communities and produce star, private initiative
It provides investment and technology.

The central government will promote investments that better use of resources
regions establishing regional production networks for the development of employers,
providing easier access to productive credit and tax incentives for
entrepreneurs and new investment. In addition, the government ensures access to
public services necessary for the development of Regional Forces of Progress,
such as roads, electricity and running water. In agreement with the communities and

the private sector, will be invested in training programs that train strength
work in the areas required for regional progress.

Together we will make the people to live near their jobs and live better with less
sacrifices. Together we will make it possible that nobody is forced to look for work
elsewhere, because there is no one in the place where he was born.

We propose to start by:
• Progress Force Tourism: Falcon, Merida, Sucre-Anzoátegui, Nueva Esparta.
• Industrial Strength Progress: Lara, Carabobo, Aragua, Caracas.
• Force Petrochemical Progress: Falcon Orinoco Belt, Zulia.
• Progress Strength Agriculture: Ranger Axis and East Coast.
• Progress Force basic inputs: Guayana basic industries.
WE DO BETTER TOGETHER
Building Trust through agreements and joint work between industry
public, private enterprise, the social economy and community.
• Clear rules and just institutions: that everyone knows their rights and
responsibilities.
• More agreements and less conflict: ensuring a climate of dialogue and understanding
among all.

• No more expropriation of jobs.
Investing effort and capital to promote growth in production
National, supporting initiatives that result in more and better jobs
job. More companies are more jobs.
• Promote investment without discrimination. To do this, facilitate productive investment and
creating your own business:
or reduce barriers to investment using information technology and
facilitating the formation of new companies.
o Organize a support service for the creation and expansion of small and
sized enterprises, to provide information, training and technical assistance.
• Access to key production inputs and ensuring public services
necessary for productive development: roads, electricity, water, ports.
• Promote access to credit to support productive investment.
• Effective links between universities and research centers with the creation of
jobs.
Directing public investment towards projects needed to create jobs,
improve conditions for economic activity, and develop
Venezuelans capabilities required, defining priorities with
community participation.
• Use oil as a lever for Progress.
• Finish the ongoing projects and inconclusive.

• Ensure the maintenance of public works and services:
or key areas for economic activities: utilities, roads,
transport, ports and airports.
or key services for the Venezuelan areas: education, health, housing and
job training, especially in sectors and occupations more
necessary for national development.
"My own business." Stimulate small and medium enterprise
companies, for the initiative of Venezuelan development projects
production that enable them to achieve economic stability.
• Encourage widespread access to credit and support training and technical assistance.
• Develop a socially responsible vision with their environment.
Creating the "Regional Forces of Progress" with the strengths of each region
for the development of related economic sectors, through processes
cooperation and integration as well as strengthening trade union links.
• The communities, municipalities and states will play a key role in the
economic development.
• To promote public and private investment in training programs
workers in their productive areas.
• To guide and facilitate access to credit to promote the development of
production clusters.
• Ensure regular and quality public services and infrastructure offer.

• Provide tax incentives to producers who are part of the agglomerates
production.

THERE ARE NO OBSTACLES FOR YOUR PROGRESS

• 66 of every 100 Venezuelans are of working age (between 15 and 64 years)
but to join the workforce they must be prepared. 27 each
100 young people in Venezuela do not receive secondary education.
• About 400 thousand young people between 15 and 24 are unemployed. The
youth unemployment rate is double the national average.
• 12 out of 100 unemployed are people who are entering first
Once the labor market.
• By educational level, the highest unemployment rates are among the
technical college and university. 1 in 3 unemployed today
technical college or university is. Five years ago, it was 1 in 5.
• In the next 10 years, more than 200,000 young people were discharged each year
Venezuelan universities, but 25% of these young people face
difficulties in getting their first job.
• 1 million Venezuelans living abroad, most of them young
they have left the country in search of new life projects.
• Until 2010 13 employment plans and 2 educational missions were announced
They are offering jobs. Including the "Mission Turn Faces", in which the
central government announced that involved more than 240,000 Venezuelans, of the
less than 1/3 which managed to enter the labor market.

THAN

AD I N E S E Q U E S D E ATR:

SYSTEM

FROM

C A P A C IT A TIO N

FOR HIM

P R O G R E SO

The conditions at birth are not going to determine your destiny. A quality job is
essential for every Venezuelan progress in achieving their aspirations.
Currently many workers and their families who face obstacles
impede economic growth included: many Venezuelans do not have the
skills and knowledge they need to join the labor market. The
Venezuelans productive force is a valuable opportunity to achieve
development potential of the country and take advantage requires that everyone has the
opportunity to train in the areas and professions that are more responsive to the reality of
country and to his vocation.
Barriers that prevent Venezuelans from accessing jobs
quality, involves on the one hand, that Venezuelans have institutions that
ensuring them sustain their quality of life for contingencies
traverse, such as unemployment or disability. But it also means having
access to the tools necessary to overcome these contingencies. Therefore, it
will articulate the Training System for Progress, which generates conditions
quality jobs that exist to promote productivity, while favoring
into the labor market who currently face higher
difficulties: younger and older adults.

Communities and businesses, supported by local and regional governments,
Identify training needs and articulate with talent
population. Public and private sector work together to identify
labor market requirements and to provide the necessary training for
Venezuelans increase the productivity of their efforts. In the System
Training for Progress, the Government will work with the companies to the
scholarships and training to be carried out in the workplace. From
Thus, the young and the elderly have real opportunities
get a job with quality.
NO ONE LEFT BEHIND
Implementing training programs to further develop the talent and
Venezuelans skills to contribute to the productive development
from the country.
• Create a national system to identify the needs of the regions and
articulates with the talents of the population.
• Training young and older adults in short programs per year (between 6 months and 1
year) in coordination with the demand of the national productive sectors.
• Implement training programs in skills to find employment.
Creating a job placement system that facilitates the insertion of those
They seek new job opportunities in the formal market.

• Create the local employment office, a meeting between businesses and
favoring workers contracting opportunities, to provide the
requiring specific training local development.
Strengthening Social Security System.
• "Benefits of Quality": Ensuring social security for all workers
Venezuelans.
Ensuring a reliable protection system for the unemployed. The
Venezuelans will have institutions that guarantee the maintenance of his
quality of life for contingencies crossing and offer them the
tools needed to overcome them.
•

Ensure compliance of unemployment insurance. The resources provided by
workers will become an effective means of income in case of need.

•

If closures or bankruptcies, allowing workers access to resources
financial and technical assistance to recover operations. The resources
They could come from advances of unemployment or credits.

•

Leave space missions employment for granting benefits
those most in need by providing training in basic skills and techniques,
along with a transfer whereby support for a period of time the quality
of life of those affected by the fact of unemployment.

"Socially Responsible Credit". Linking with social programs
programs of mass access to credit. Participation in
progressive social programs enable financial inclusion
Venezuela, through mechanisms of access to credit and savings incentive
insurance.
•

Enhance the work of the Development Banks.

•

Create venture capital funds, open to the private sector.

•

Create private and official institutions that offer bonds or guarantees for the
new and small businesses have an opportunity to access loans
traditional financial institutions.

Breaking down the barriers that are in vulnerable sectors for employment,
creating real opportunities for the populations most in need,
particularly younger and older adults.
• "Act first job". Provide training for youth and agreements with
companies to create opportunities.
• Provide financial incentives to companies that hire graduates and
venture financing from universities.
• New forms of contracting business for seniors: be
associative organizations with databases to enhance the use of the
accumulated experience. Agreements with companies will be encouraged to offer
Special schemes hours.

TE THE SALARY RANGE
• What is bought with Bs.F. 100 in 1999, the end of 2011 cost
Bs.F. 1,269.
• Between 1999 and 2010, Venezuela registered an inflation rate ten times
above the average of the seven largest countries in Latin America.
• Since 2008, the close of each year, the cost of the food basket
He exceeded the minimum wage legislation.
• 3.9 million Venezuelan workers and pensioners earn
minimum salary.
• Despite the fact that since 2003 around 100 varieties of products
canasta rules have regulated prices, food inflation is
2.067%, higher than general inflation.
• Since 1999, the years of lower inflation were 2000 and 2001,
before the start of price controls.
• On average, 13% shortage of products usually consumed
Venezuelans.

With a salary you can progress QUALITY: STRONG ECONOMY
Venezuela is the ground where all have the opportunity to enjoy a
stable employment, well-paid, with opportunities for growth, savings and
employment benefits: a job with quality. No one will be left behind, youth and adults

may form and get good jobs in their community because
economic development will be comprehensive and achieve push through every town, city and
state of our country. The development of tourism, agriculture, manufacturing,
petrochemical and basic inputs forge a stable, solid and reliable economy.
We shall take our economy of goods and services made in Venezuela and also we
provide an opportunity to grow and develop with enough income to cover
our needs and provide economic security to our homes.

By building a trusted environment for investment based on
just institutions, reducing barriers to entrepreneurship, and
promoting the initiative of the private economy and social economy -through
measures such as mass access to credit and training-will favor the
increased domestic production of goods and services we consume the
Venezuelans. So we achieve curb rising prices: only joint work between
a government advisor and private and social sectors and highly productive
responsible, will allow us to achieve price stability that will safeguard the
value of wages of the Venezuelans. The government will also promote dialogue and
agreements between workers, producers and distributors that favor
price stability. We are convinced that we do it together better.

With a salary QUALITY YOU CAN GROW
Improving the salaries of all Venezuelans allowing them to buy more
quality products in a timely manner.
• Encourage each employee has the tools to increase their
productivity and can earn better wages.
o Provide training programs in technical areas and basic skills
productivity in cooperation with the private sector.
or facilitate access to loans aimed at improving capital allocation
worker, that achieves enhanced productivity.
• Encourage employers to become counselors in productivity, and
comply with the timely payment of wages and benefits.
or grant tax incentives and easier access to credit to reward the
Notable increases in productivity per worker, and show improvements
wage.
• Evaluate compliance with collective agreements.
Controlling inflation and ensuring the supply of commodities.
• "Made in Venezuela". Promote domestic production for domestic consumption and
export.
• Ensure transparency and accountability by the administration
public.

Improving basic services.
• Expand the capacity of buying and saving Venezuelan homes, decreasing
spending on public services (health, education and safety) to improve
coverage and quality.

KEY PROGRAMS
1. Regional Forces of Progress
Venezuela has the resources to create many quality jobs,
good areas to live with education, services, public recreation areas and
quiet room safe. For this potential to be translated into progress and
well, let's create the "Regional Forces of Progress."
The "Regional Forces of Progress" are areas of productivity and quality of life
which shall conform to the length and breadth of the country, according to the
human, natural and industrial resources which each community, municipality and
City Venezuela.
Regional task forces of progress are all together because we do
best: the central government directs and facilitates; regional governments monitor and
activated; people and communities star and produce.
Central government commitments: set fiscal incentives; reduce paperwork and
bureaucracy to limit the creation of new enterprises and the development of
existing; and guiding and facilitating access to credit.
Commitments of businesses to increase investment; working together with the sector
academia to improve production processes; provide mechanisms
training for their employees.

General measures
•

Stimulate the role of municipalities and states in the process of

identifying the potential of regions.

•

Promote public and private investment in training programs.

•

Guide and facilitate access to credit.

•

Ensure regular and quality public services and infrastructure offer.

•

Grant tax incentives to producers.

•

Facilitate productive investment and organize a service to support the creation and
expansion of small and medium enterprises, to provide information,
training and technical assistance.

•

Linking universities and research centers with the world
Business.

Specific measures
Agricultural Progress force
•

Provide technical assistance to agriculture: soil improvement, improved
fertilizer, seed development, increased storage capacity and
improving marketing chain.

Progress Force Basic Petrochemicals
•

Public-private work together to promote the investment needed to
reactivate large companies of Guayana.

Progress Force Manufacturing

Joint public-private work for the revival of industrial parks:

•

access to credit and tax incentives.
Petrochemical Force Progress
Building trust and adequate conditions the next six years, could

•

made investments of more than $ 100 billion that will: ensure
training of professionals and honor labor rights.
Tourist Force Progress
• Training for work: hotel services and attention to guests.
• Implement recovery and maintenance of the environment and areas
attractions.

Where do we start?
Area and Diagnosis

Forces

Potential Home

Direct Hit

Leading producers of corn

- 24,900 new jobs

Regional
AGRICULTURE
- It

esteem

than

Axis
the Portuguesa

yellow, white corn and rice.

production has fallen, Cojedespor

the

less

- Since
production

Axis

2009

year.

9% Guarico

since 1998.

fishery

- Remove

Apure has one of the largest

Barinas

Direct on average

buffalo numbers heads
and cattle.

shortage

(Currently 13% in
average).
- Decrease

the

It has fallen by more than Axis
half.

Yaracuy

Lara Of the major producers
coffee, sugar cane, beans,
onion, potato and tomato.

Sucre

producer

Y

is

he

Fisheries

domestic production)

to

the

imports:
- Rice

It hosts 25% of the coastline
national

dependence

(actually

60%)

principal

- corn

(50%

65%)

(actually

- Meats (currently
60%)
- Sugar (now
65%)
- coffee

(actually

20%)
- Beans
(Currently 70%)

BASIC SUPPLIES
- The

production

steel

aluminum

Guyana

CVG Venezuelan pride - About 1,000 jobs

from

It was created in and is made

average quality

Y

15 companies engaged in the

per year.

iron (CVG) are by

exploitation of hybrid resources - Cover

below levels

forest, iron, bauxite, gold,

rebar

(actually

1997.

diamond and other minerals

60%

cement

region.

cabilla)

- Since

2009

rebar production

- Represents 15% of CaraboboPIB and generates effects AraguaDistrito

- In the industrial sector Capital
They have

closed

4,000

Companies in 12 years.

from

Y

housing.
Axis

facilitators.

in

deficit

- Reduce the large deficit

He fell at least 25%.
MANUFACTURING

he

Strengths

in:

agroindustry,

- 56,300 new jobs

papermaking products

Direct on average

paper and textiles;

year.

industry

chemical, rubber and plastic; Y
elaboration

from

products

associated to metal ores
and non-metallic.

PETROCHEMICAL
- Reservations
more

Axis

Falcón Refining Complex

Zulia oil

big

Paraguana

than

It represents 75% of capacity

of

refining the country. Is the

world.
- The 2nd

(Falcon)

reservation

big

from

gas

more
of

- Increase production

America.

barrels per day in 2018.

world.

34% of Venezuelan oil.

5.5

millions

from

FPO is the largest reservoir of crude

oil Guárico-

It fell more than 20%

year.

to

In the state of Zulia is extracted

production

Direct on average

larger resort of America

Hemisphere, and the 8th of

- Between 1999 and 2011 the Axis

- More than 2,000 jobs

known in the world.

AnzoáteguiMonagas

TOURISM

Axis

- In 139 countries, we are Anzoátegui

The

states

They have

825

kilometers of coastline, home to the

- 25,400 new jobs
on average per year.

the ninth country with Sucre

Mochima National Park.

more

5 National Parks and museums

visits

and historical sites. In 1993, the

in six years.

Falcon resources

natural.
- There are

43

- Tripling the number of

parks

UNESCO declared City

Y

Coro and its Port de la Vela,

Natural

They represent 53% of

Heritage

National territory.

Humanity.

Cultural

from

the

international

- Doubling of hotels
in six years.

Merida

3

parks

Theme

Y

he

highest cable car and the 2nd most
throughout the world.
New

It has more than 50km of beaches,

Sparta

island is remote from the risks of
Hurricanes and is one of the
top destinations worldwide
for windsurfing and kitesurfing.

Goals
• average jobs per year: 109,600. Total jobs in six years: 657,600.
• To increase production, reduce dependence on imports and satisfy
domestic consumption.
• Triple visits by international tourists and hotel offer double in six years.
• Increase oil production to 5.5 million barrels per day by 2018.

2. System training progress
Quality employment is essential for every Venezuelan progress in achieving
their aspirations. Currently many workers and their families face
obstacles to economic growth inserted: many
Venezuelans do not have the skills and knowledge they need to
join the labor market. The productive power of Venezuelans is a
valuable opportunity to achieve the country's development potential, and harness
It requires that all Venezuelans have the opportunity to train in the areas and
trades that are more responsive to the country's reality and vocation.
To ensure that all Venezuelans have the skills and knowledge
they need, the training system for Progress articulate, generating
conditions of quality jobs that exist and, in turn, favors
into the labor market who currently face more obstacles:
younger and older adults. Everyone will have a place to contribute to the
Venezuela construction progress.
Communities, supported by local and regional governments, will identify
needs of the regions and articulated with the talents of the population. Sector
public and private work together to identify market needs
labor and provide training to all Venezuelans to
integrated employment quality and increase the productivity of your effort.

General measures
• Stimulate the role of municipalities and states in identifying
training areas.
• To promote public and private investment in the installation of institutes and programs
training.
• To guide and facilitate access to credit institutions seeking to contribute
increasing worker productivity.
• Provide tax incentives for institutions to collaborate with the design and
implementation of training programs.
• Linking universities and research centers with national authorities and
local, and the business sector.
Specific measures
First Job. Ensure first professional experience for young people
integrate into the labor market by:
• Granting tax incentives for companies with more than 20 employees
hire young people between 18 and 30 who join for the first time
working market. The magnitude of the tax benefit will vary within a range, and
will depend on the number of young people hired under the grant-figure job.
Young people serve in their company, while it undertakes
to provide technical training they require to promote
permanence and growth of young people in the companies.

• The government, with the support of institutions and educational organizations offer
training for

young

skills

basic to increase

odds of contract. Particularly short workshops will be offered (1 day)
throughout the national territory: the proper construction of the curriculum vitae,
basic social skills, public speaking and self-management in interviews.
• Promote the involvement of young people in training programs
technique in the activities agreed between the national government and sectors
national production, development of the "Regional Forces
Progress. "
Second opportunity. Leveraging the accumulated knowledge of those
people over 60 who wish to remain active in the workforce,
by:
• In agreement with the companies and communities, establish schemes
Special reduced hours, remuneration and specific employee benefits
for hiring 60 more staff.
• Provide training to older adults in basic skills
incorporation into the job market, particularly in the management
tools.
• Encourage the formation of associative organizations of people over 60
years, enabling them to provide professional services in a dynamic way, according to
availability and physical abilities. This will be achieved by granting
facilitate access to credit, especially from public banking. They

especially they will promote initiatives that have as their object
education, training and training of other members of the workforce.
Where do we start?
• Implement, in accordance with established training institutions,
short training programs to promote basic skills
hiring job seekers.
• Provide, through public-private partnerships, training in priority areas
for the development of the "Regional Forces of Progress":
or training for tourism development: Training programs for bid
of customer services, languages ​​and management.
or for Industrial Training: Training programs in trades
technicians related to agribusiness, the manufacture of paper,
handling textiles, chemicals, rubber and plastics, and metalworking.
o Training for Petrochemical progress: technical training programs
for the hydrocarbon industry and chemical, industrial safety and handling
risk.
or progress for Agricultural Training: Technical assistance for the
soil improvement, improved fertilizer (variety and availability), development
seeds, increased storage capacity and improved chain
marketing.
o Training for the progress of basic inputs: Training programs
steel and metalworking technique.

Goals
• To train 50,000 young people a year in line with demand sectors
national production.
• Train 3,000 seniors annually in basic skills for incorporation
the labor market.
• Train 2,000 new workers in the petrochemical industry per year, and
provide professional development programs for those already working in the
sector.

3. National Infrastructure Plan

In Venezuela, public investment will be directed towards infrastructure projects
necessary to create jobs, improve conditions for the activity
economic, and develop the skills and knowledge that the Venezuelans
They need.

The

works

unfinished

will be

You culminated

Y

are

will ensure

he

maintenance of utility infrastructure, roads, transport, ports and
airports; services and education, health, housing and training for
work, especially in sectors and occupations most needed for development
national. Venezuela is the country where all communities have access to
timely and efficient public services. All children and adolescents
anywhere in the country will have access to schools and quality education at all
communities, allowing our fully train new generations.
With an infrastructure and quality public services,

human talent

Venezuela, and the initiative and promotion of private investment, we will generate
opportunities for work, training and growth of all
Venezuelans, with stable jobs, well paid, with opportunities
growth, savings and business benefits: quality jobs.
General measures
• Use an efficient and transparent oil resources as leverage
for Progress.
• Finish the ongoing projects and unfinished works.

• Ensure the maintenance of public works and services in key areas:
or for economic activities: utilities, roads, transport,
ports and airports.
o For the life of Venezuelans: education, health, housing and training
work, especially in sectors and occupations most needed for the
national development.
Specific measures
Plan of mobility and mass transit. Roads, metropolitan systems
mass transport, railways and airports and ports provide both
communities and businesses access to quality roads
to encourage trade and tourism.
Quality public services. Provide the population and businesses
stable, reliable and efficient systems:
• Completing the plan investments 20,082,016 incorporation of electric generation.
• Build and upgrade the main water treatment plants.
• Ensure stable supply of domestic gas.
• Build and improve the main drainage and sewage.
• Building and improving infrastructure for sport, recreation and tourism.
• Ensure proper handling and disposal of garbage, waste and residues
solid.

• Build and improve the network of national colleges in the country.
• Ensure affordable and quality medical offer, by quickly
recovery of the main hospitals.
The first repairs or services include: Emergency surgery,
delivery room, Advanced Life Support (ICU).
or Stakeout "classic" health programs according to a logic
territorial: public health programs of greater public interest (diseases
chronic tuberculosis vaccines).
• Ensure the necessary construction of housing to cover the deficit
housing.
• Build the infrastructure necessary to ensure justice, defense and
National security.
Goals
• Recover 50 hospitals in the first year of management.
• Build and recover an average of 1,000 schools per year nationwide.
• Invest US $ 207.787 million in six years, under the development plan
infrastructure is expected to generate an average of 155,000 direct jobs by
year.

4. Strong Economy
Venezuela must become a strong and prosperous economy, with many
entrepreneurs, large, medium and small businesses. For that, we need
build a trusted environment for investment, generating increased
domestic production of goods and services we consume Venezuelans.
So achieve a stable, solid and reliable economy, in which all we can
enjoy quality jobs and wages that allow us to meet our
needs and provide economic security to our homes.
Combining human talent of Venezuelans support the public sector and
initiative and encouragement of private investment will achieve serving our country and
Venezuela achieve progress. We are convinced that we do together
best.
In a strong economy, Venezuelans:
• We can meet our needs and save, to give economic security
our homes, through improvements in pay levels and controls
inflation that would allow it down to single digits in six years.
• Enjoy of goods and services "Made in Venezuela" to replace shortages
by variety of national quality products.
• Enjoy an economic environment that will grow between 6 and 7% per annum, in
10 years would double the size of the economy and open up more and better
opportunities for all.

• We may be formed to obtain the skills and knowledge necessary
to integrate the labor market: 50 000 young and elderly by 3000
year.
• You can enjoy quality jobs, through the creation of 3 million
jobs in six years, 500 thousand per year.
• We will achieve push through every town, city and state of our country: no
It will be left behind.
Where do we start?
• Better wages. Offer training programs to increase
worker productivity, and evaluate timely and comprehensive manner the
collective agreements.
• Lower inflation and shortages. Promote national production
for export and domestic consumption and reduce inflationary pressure generated
for the costs of imports.
• Quality services. Improve coverage and quality of public services
(Such as health, education and security), such that a decrease in spending
these households, let expand their purchasing power and savings.
Goals
• Reduce inflation to one digit at the end of six years.

THREE STEPS TO PROGRESS
1. You have more and better opportunities: Together we do better
Teaming up with public-private effort to generate many
jobs and build an environment of trust to ensure stability
of those already employed.
Because you can develop your talents
Because you want to work on what you like
Because you deserve a quality job
2. That there are no obstacles to your progress: no one is left behind
Let's break down the barriers that exclude young and older adults,
have institutions for training and development for all, with your
talent to respond to the country and your aspirations.
Because you can meet your goals
Because you want to learn more and grow
Because you deserve that your experience is taken into account
3. The salary will reach: a salary of quality you can progress
It is necessary to control inflation so that you win with your effort will reach and
you can progress quiet with your family by having social security and
structure to accompany you during contingencies.

Because you can be independent
Because you want a quality salary
Because you deserve that institutions support you

The plan is to have stable jobs and quality, to help you
real progress.

FIRST JOB PLAN
STABILITY AND NEW OPPORTUNITIES FOR PROGRESS

In Venezuela…
• Young people are the most affected by unemployment group:
o The unemployment rate between 15 and 24 years, more than twice the
General unemployment.
or about 400 thousand aged 15 to 24 are unemployed.
or 12 out of 100 unemployed are people who are entering first
the labor market.
• Young people face difficulties entering the labor market:
or to join the workforce must be ready, but 27 out of 100
young people in Venezuela do not receive secondary education.
• Those who have joined the work force as technical or university
university, are most affected by unemployment:
o The unemployment rate of those with tertiary education (10%) is higher
the unemployment rate of illiterates, of whom no level
education, and those who reach only basic education or secondary education.

COMMITMENT
• For Progress Venezuela, we must seize the productive force of the
Venezuelans. This requires that everyone can form in areas and trades
better respond to the country's reality and vocation.
• The program "First Job" first professional experience ensure the
young people who join the labor market.

GOALS
Commitment: 900,000 jobs in six years for quality aged 15 to 24
year old.
• The Employment Plan for All will create more than 3 million jobs
quality in six years. Of these, 900,000 will be directed to Venezuelans between 15 and 24
years (30%): 150,000 jobs per year.
• To train 50,000 young people the first year in short programs (between 6 months and 1 year)
keeping demand for national productive sectors.
• Install, in partnership with communities, local governments, industry
private educational institutes and regional training institute
specialized for each of the regional forces of progress at the end of
administration.

FIRST JOB PLAN
Five Steps ...

1.

Training

The government will encourage young people entering the labor market after
successfully complete their education.
• Ensure access to relevant education and quality through
construction of 1,000 colleges through the Infrastructure Plan.

2.

Job training

Public-private cooperation to establish training programs for
Youth in offices required by companies with on-site training
job.
• Training for Tourism Progress: offering training services
Customer, languages ​​and management. Priority states: Falcon,
Merida, Sucre-Anzoátegui, Margarita-Car.
• Training for Industrial: training in technical trades
related to agribusiness, manufacturing paper products, management
textiles, chemicals, rubber and plastics, and metalworking. United
Priority: Carabobo, Aragua, Capital District.

• Training for the Petrochemical Progress: for technical training
hydrocarbon industry and chemical, industrial safety and handling
risks. Priority states: Falcon, Gaza, Zulia.
• Training for Agricultural Progress: technical assistance aimed at
soil improvement, improved fertilizer (variety and availability), development
seeds, increased storage capacity and improved chain
marketing. Priority states: Portuguesa, Guarico.

3.

Acquisition of skills for recruiting

Training activities aimed at young people, focusing on basic skills
entering the job market. In particular:
•

In cooperation with academic institutions offer courses that favor
the chances of young people to find employment: a CV
skills for successful job interviews, public speaking, among others.

Four.

Incentives for companies to hire young

Young people serve in their company, while it undertakes to
provide technical training they require to facilitate the maintenance and
growth of young people in companies.
•

Variable tax benefits for companies that hire young people between 18 and
30 years under the guise of scholarship-work.

5.

"My own company"

Stimulate entrepreneurship of small and medium enterprises designed by
Venezuelan youth initiative, in conjunction with universities and other
public and private institutions.

PLAN SECOND CHANCE
STABILITY AND NEW OPPORTUNITIES FOR PROGRESS

In Venezuela…
• In 2013, 2.7 million Venezuelans will have more than 60 years and 1.73
more than 65 million.
• In 2011, 53.15% of those over 60 years Venezuelans (1.3 MM
Venezuela) and 56.25% over 65 years (0.8 MM Venezuelan) lived
ensituación poverty.
• 180 000 Venezuelans over 45 estándesempleados.

COMMITMENT
• For Progress Venezuela, we must seize the productive force of the
Venezuelans. This requires that everyone can perform in the areas and trades
to better respond to the country's reality and vocation.
• The "Second Chance" will use the knowledge
accumulated those over 45 years who wish to stay
active in the workforce.
GOALS
Commitment: 450,000 jobs in six years with quality for over 45 years.

• The Employment Plan for All will create more than 3 million jobs
quality in six years. Of these, 450,000 will be directed to Venezuelans over
45 years (15%): 75 000 jobs per year.
• To train 30,000 seniors annually in basic skills
into the labor market.
PLAN SECOND CHANCE
FOUR STEPS ...

1.

Special hiring schemes.

Create conditions that favor the inclusion of seniors in the industry
formal labor.
• Tax incentives for companies that hire services for senior citizens.
• Cooperation agreements with private enterprise:
or reduced for seniors hired Timetable (half time
part time).
or specific labor benefits, such as facilities for the mobilization to the site
working for access to health products and services, and insurance.

2.

Promoting membership organizations

Promote the formation of cooperatives and associations allow civilesque wings
Older people provide professional services in a dynamic way, according to your
availability.
• provision of facilities for access to credit, especially through the
public banks. They are especially initiatives that promote associative
purpose is train, educate and train new members of the force
labor.

3.

Training

Training activities aimed at older adults, focusing on skills
basic for entering the job market. In particular:
•

In cooperation with academic institutions offer courses that favor
the odds of seniors to find jobs:
CV presentation, skills for successful job interviews,
oratory, among others.

•

Training for basic management tools.

Four.

Professional development

Training activities aimed at older adults, in areas and occupations in the
seeking to serve, in cooperation with companies and according to the
priorities of the country and the community.
•

Customer services, languages ​​and management. Priority states:
Falcon, Merida, Sucre-Anzoátegui, Margarita-Car.

•

Technical skills related to agribusiness, manufacturing products
paper handling textile, chemical, rubber and plastic, and
metalworking. Priority states: Carabobo, Aragua, Capital District.

•

Technicians for the hydrocarbon industry and chemical safety offices
Industrial and risk management. Priority states: Falcon, Gaza, Zulia.

•

Technical assistance for soil improvement, improved fertilizer (variety
Y

availability)

developing

from

seeds,

increase

from

capacity

from

improved storage and marketing chain. United
Priority: Portuguesa, Guarico.
•

Steel and metal forming technique. Priority: basic industries
Guayana.

SAFETY PLAN FOR ALL
Venezuelans deserve to get back our lives. The tranquility is what
we want and what we deserve is time for us to walk our streets without
fear!

We have a plan and know how to do. Solving this problem
deserves to take the necessary measures and understand that violent are few and
it is unfair that they have turned our life in this anxiety,
transforming and forcing the withdrawal. That is why we have taken a
Commitment: We will not tolerate violence, crime and impunity.

We know that we can only make progress if you and your family feel that their lives are
respected and protected by the state. Our plan articulates comprehensive actions
that will allow the order and security in cities and their popular areas, but
also contemplate the countryside and rural areas, where the presence of the
It is increasing violence increases.

To achieve a new way of doing politics is necessary. After 18 plans
security failures, applied for 14 years, the central government could not handle the
insecurity and that is something we all know. One of the fundamental tasks
State is to provide justice, and the problem of their absence is evident even in the face

those who believe in this project, because they and their men have also been victims of
inefficiency. It is impossible to hide problem.

How to believe who for years have argued that insecurity was only a
feeling? How disrespectful to those who believe the pain of those who have lost
family in this undeclared war? How to believe those figures and we hide
lie, to evade responsibility? There are thousands of Venezuelans who are killed in a
year and the state does nothing to change that. Fear served.

It is important to understand something: from now I get to the front of the solution. My
commitment and the commitment of my team are based on the capacity we have,
but also in our belief and will. We know the size of the
responsibility and therefore did not come to promise: you came to commit
life and me, your life is sacred.

The conditions of violence promoted from an aggressive way of doing politics
They have forced us to hide. Going outside is being nervous and feeling vulnerable.
Given this reality, from the presidency to each of the ministers and authorities
involved, they have allowed us crime imposes a curfew. It has been
promoted violence as a strategy, believing more in weapons than in
solutions. And yet they have been complicit: there is no real planning, but a
promises chain has only allowed the violence reigns from our
borders to our prisons.

Our life is at risk in every corner of the country and there is not even honesty
to assume that the problem is there. The violence is killing us and forcing us to
bad habits and trap sneaking in our daily lives as a
survival mechanism. Meanness and evasion of responsibility
major faces of this government that has become an enemy of life and
pimp of death.

It is not even possible to parish life that allows us to relate to the
other. Not even feel confidence in the authorities to ensure our
security. We live in fear, evil and locked. And you're good in that darkness
they want to force us to live! Today, our hope connected to the
good things will bring light necessary for us to open the door again to
another without fear.

The central government has allowed us to steal the possibility of imagining a future.
We are led to believe that the only way to live is under fear and
uncertainty. But we will not allow them to rob us of hope.

We know it is a complex problem. It has lacked political will and commitment and
so we have come to this outrageous state of violence. A government is necessary
stop looking for someone to blame and take this as a priority.

You tell me and I tell you: your life as I care I care of
every Venezuelan. So I committed to putting forward solutions
will allow you to live in peace and know that your life and your family are respected and
valued.

I offer not only security but quiet. Let's turn tranquility in a
Lifestyle.

PRINCIPLES
A country for Progress is a country for life. In our government we will
deal to build the country we want and deserve.
The progress and welfare of all are possible only when there is respect, hope,
solidarity, tolerance and exercise of rights and duties by laws that are fair
and fulfilled for all.
It was time that hope will triumph over fear. Ending
insecurity requires us to make a coordinated effort, by providing solutions
truly effective and not just police, so we understand this as a
complex problem that must be addressed through timely and coherent policies
that respond to the reality of the country.
• Comprehensiveness: With the participation of all the authorities involved and not
only the executive.

• Results in the short term: We can have tangible results in
peace of Venezuelans thanks to immediate action.
• Respect for Human Rights Respect for human rights is
legitimized and guaranteed institutional procedures, but also
counting on working together with the state of Non
national and international government.
• Responsibility and will: Provision of justice and security to citizens
It is an inalienable responsibility of the State. It just takes willingness to do
things right.
• We will not tolerate breaches of the law: The law enforcement and
Justice must be equal for all, without exclusion and without privileges. For each
crime, there must be a conviction. For each offense, should be
a penalty. No more impunity. Death is not something we can do everyday.

COMMITMENT
Venezuelans deserve more, we deserve to live in peace. The time has come
that you and your family can walk our streets and quiet spaces
public, confidently go to the police and be confident that justice
work for all, without discrimination or privileges. So our commitment is
Zero tolerance towards violence, crime and impunity, to bring order. So you and
your family can live in peace and progress.

We are committed to ensuring the safety, order and tranquility of all
Venezuelans. We know that together we can build a country of peace and justice.
Our commitment and the commitment of all, it is with life and progress.
1. live peacefully
When we speak of peace we talk about something much bigger than just
security concept. One is quiet when no security, but also when
will have the necessary basic services, public spaces and make city living,
quality jobs and opportunities for advancement. No conditions at birth
should determine your destiny and violence can no longer be seen as a
way to achieve what we need or want.
Tranquility is given opportunities for employment, education and public spaces
quality: Culture of peace.
PREVENTION
• Promoting a culture of peace and coexistence.
or promoters of peace. Train peace promoters in the communities, capable of
swiftly resolve local conflicts and facilitate access to justice. We will put
emphasis on attention to the most vulnerable groups and communities more
affected.
or collaboration between the community and the police, to establish
preventive activities that contribute to the protection of the community. The
Community involvement will help both the diagnosis of problems
local, and the monitoring and implementation of prevention measures.

•

In response to the most vulnerable populations: children and youth, victims of
family violence, homeless people and former prisoners.
Children and young people
Training program or Construction of Citizenship, for the transmission of
values ​​of culture of peace and coexistence. It will allow, especially
children and young people in their schools and colleges can form at: mediation and
peaceful conflict resolution, acceptance of others, solidarity and cooperation,
management of gender differences.
or expand access to employment and education opportunities to all
Venezuelans through collaboration between the public and private sector.
First Job. Provide training for youth and agreements with
companies to ensure young people their first work experience.
Ensure access of youth to education, expanding capacity
current education system.
Sport or Plan Everywhere. Massive promotion of sport through the
recovery and construction of sports facilities near the
community (Courts and gyms).
Promotion of sports till late in the night
recovered spaces (Sports Night), which offer a healthy alternative
entertainment to young, avoiding alcohol and possible
drugs.
Vertical Gyms building, with support from private enterprise,
adapted to local conditions and needs.

massifying or access to culture, beyond the galleries and cultural centers,
as a source of recreation and training.
Art in the Street program. Allocate public spaces for activities such as:
Street theater (free film screenings in public spaces), music
(Presentation of musical groups especially for the population
Young), Street Theatre (free presentation of plays in space
public) and Mobile Gallery (photo exhibition, graphics, drawings and paintings).
Houses of Culture. Recover and build community spaces for
promote local art manifestations.
Young culture. Encourage the participation of young people in culture
promoting creativity, from its most traditional manifestations to
more contemporary, such as workshops and manga comics,
photography, graphic design, among others.
Children and adults on the streets
Strengthening or care programs for children and adults on the streets,
and coordinate and support all institutions, public and private,
devoted to the problem of the homeless.
Facilitate the process of admission to institutional care, voluntary and
progressive.
Providing psychological and emotional guidance.
Provide education and training, according to the skills and dedication of the
person, to ensure their social reintegration.

or street workers. Form trained and motivated personnel to guide and
address children and adults on the streets, through media
convincing and not repressive, to show that it is possible a change in their
lives.
Victims of domestic violence
or address the problem of domestic violence, especially violence
gender, both by conducting information campaigns and
raising, training and family values.
houses or shelter. Each state must have at least a safe space that
Victims of domestic violence can go in defense. In these spaces
there will be psychological and emotional care as well as access to counseling
Legal matters (complaints and procedures) if required.
Former inmates
or strengthen programs and institutions, public and private, engaged in
care for ex-prisoners, to ensure their reintegration into society
good citizens.
• Implementing education campaigns, particularly for children and young people,
reduce the use and abuse of alcohol and other drugs, promoting social awareness
on the damage and the consequences associated with their consumption.
• us conquer public spaces. Activating public spaces to provide
Venezuelans enjoy the possibility of streets, squares, parks and beaches without

fear. To achieve this should improve the infrastructure
(Especially lighting) and increase police presence.
Plan or lighting, beautification and tree planting in parks and plazas. Coordinate with
public and private electric utilities, mayors, governors and
national executive, a massive plan of lighting squares and avenues (Plan
Infrastructure).
or promote the realization of cultural, sports and recreational activities
public spaces, coordinated between the public and private sectors, and participation
communities.
or increase patrols and the police presence in public spaces
entertainment, starting with the most vulnerable to violence populations,
and tourist sites that have greater cultural and sports activities.
or popular support centers. Each community will have a comprehensive space
citizen services, including police services and other services related to
emergency care 24 hours: social workers, care unit
family, promoters of peace, among others.
•

Promoting a plan of disarmament, arms control and destruction.
Disarmament or Plan: Less weapons is less violence. Reduce the number of weapons
in the hands of the population, providing a suitable incentive for who has
a weapon, particularly if it is illegal, the surrender to the authorities.
or Destruction

from

weapons.

The

weapons

illegal

seized

are

they render useless

immediately, and the material can be used as feedstock for the
industrial production or the creation of artistic expressions.

or gun control. Legally register all weapons in the hands of the
population, with their characteristics and data owner.

2. Have authorities and institutions close and reliable

Venezuelans deserve authorities in which we can trust. It's not fair
the police force, responsible for the protection of citizen security, not only
fails to prevent crime but even some officials commit crimes.

We need institutions, to punish crime and
provide justice to citizens, authorities that meet the law and not that
respond to corruption and privilege. Venezuelans deserve
reliable institutions that we can go to resolve our conflicts:
Justice is for everyone equally.

Tranquility is to have reliable authorities and access to justice for
all alike.

CRIME CONTROL: police
Reliable police: officials committed to the peace of the
Venezuelans.
• Zero tolerance of internal corruption and malpractices.

Debug or the police to ensure that those officials who
they have committed crimes, they are outside the security forces
citizen.
or implement a system of organization and coordination with police delimitation
clear areas of responsibility and jurisdiction as well as mechanisms
oversight of policing.
• Increasing the human capital of the police; with recruitment and training plans,
police profession, social security, disciplinary regime and socioeconomic support policies.
police authority or well paid. Improve pay and conditions
benefits
pensions, insurance policies, among others for all police officers.
o Ensure police training in technical aspects for the prevention and
managing violence, emergency response and
promotion of civic values.
Implement plans or socio-economic support to the police: designing special plans
that meet the official and his family in areas such as housing, health and
education.
•

Strengthening police prevention plans and police-community integration.
or decentralized organization of regional and municipal police, so
each policing area can be addressed in depth by your body
corresponding security. This will allow the understanding of the behavior

criminal of each sector and strengthen the direct link between security entity
the

neighbors.

The

bodies

police

will

clearly

assigned

the

responsibility of declining crime rates in a geographic area
determined and report regularly to the community the results of their
work.
• Analysis Centres Criminal and Criminal Information.
or encourage the creation of research centers in all police forces,
enabling manage databases that facilitate police work.
or promote transparency in the activities of public bodies, by
regular dissemination of the figures linked to the security of Venezuelans. The
presentation of local, regional and national results allow you to
monitoring and evaluating the implementation of the measures.

JUSTICE SYSTEM
Timely access to justice for everyone: We will support the judiciary
to strengthen, to fluency, and bring the justice system to
citizens.

• Promoting the increase in the number of judges in penal control functions such
increase their availability to resolve cases in a timely manner,
short and expeditious.

• Supporting the empowerment of court control, judgment and execution to
increase the possibility of having brief, timely and effective justice.
• Promoting coordination among the various levels of the judiciary to achieve
the unification of judicial criteria: common diagnoses, applications together,
exchange of positive experiences, decisions about operations and
administrative strategies.
• Promoting a system for random distribution and objective causes,
improve the transparency of fiscal allocations and equitable distribution of
the cases.
• Promoting the optimization of the functioning of the internal addresses
Public Ministry, through support to the review of the objectives and
competences, to reduce bureaucracy and, consequently, the delay in the
administrative, and especially in criminal proceedings.
• Supporting the technical and ethical training of public prosecutors and
implementation of transparent guidelines for the control of competitive entry, and
promotion or removal.
• Fostering close and timely access to justice by providing guidance
immediate reports on Venezuelans to the request by
promoting the improvement of Tax Service Office.
• Creating Units Victim Assistance. Increase the number of offices
care in the country, who have direct service personnel care

public, sufficient and well trained to receive complaints, categorize them according to their
urgency and type and provide guidance on the procedures to follow.
• Providing adequate space to lawyers for defendants and victims
review of your records through the improvement and extension of the
infrastructure dependencies prosecutors.
PRISON SYSTEM
Prisons positive: A decent detention and opportunities for
pro-social reintegration.
• Adaptation of the Physical Plant.
or improve and expand the infrastructure of all prisons in the country, serving the
international standards to ensure decent human conditions
favoring the personal growth of the convicts.
Provide the prisons or areas for visits, medical care,
education and sport.
Resize or criminal structures to facilitate monitoring and
care for prisoners.
• Relocating the prison population according to a standard classification, for which
It is required to adapt structures: maximum, medium and minimum security. The
prison population should be classified according to their administrative status (convicted and
processing), and according to the dangers associated with the type of crime committed (high, medium,
come down). The classification will allow to design specific plans of care between each

category while increasing security and safety measures,
depending on the particular characteristics of each prison population.
• Designing a policy regime for domestic life, setting schedules and
mandatory activities. Every criminal, according to the characteristics of its population and
geographical area where it is located, should have a regulation
contemplates training and recreational activities.
• Classrooms prison. Promoting the prison population be able to
productive, acquire the skills required to join the
workforce once recovered their freedom.
• Increasing the number of cultural, sports and academic, as
theater, poetry, music and sports plans.
• Improving the provision of prisons materials and human resources
necessary for optimal functioning.
o Ensure that every penal institution has sufficient staff for the
development of activities in custody humanely and not demeaning and not
discriminatory. This includes permanent staff of medical care, counseling
social and psychological and legal support to ensure their access to justice.
o Provide staff training

responsible for all establishments

criminal; in technical and administrative areas for the development of activities
in seclusion, especially to professionalize the security personnel under
standards of prevention and respect for human rights of prisoners.

• Working closely with NGOs and other academic, public institutions and
private work dedicated to effective improvement of justice and security.
The partnership shall cover technical assistance in policy formulation
public, or support for the implementation of prevention and management projects
violence, protection of human rights, legal advice, and promoting
cultural, sports and recreational activities, among others.
• Accompanying program former inmate. Facilitate access to opportunities
progress (education and employment) who have served their sentence and seek
reintegrate into society as productive Venezuelan and contribute to the development of
country. If necessary, it includes the work of social workers to support and
keep track of the return to family life and community of former inmate.

COMMITTED TO YOU PLAN
This is the plan that will lead us to a future where we can decide on the fate
we want and live peaceful, productive and progress being simultaneously
we see progress in the country. It is necessary to strengthen and regulate programs
social, making them stronger and more effective to actually give the
Venezuelan tools necessary to progress.
We propose a new way and progress. It is a path we deserve
transit in peace, social justice, creating wealth and welfare for all alike. Is
a road to be built along the entire life of every Venezuelan. We know
we doing so will be a country progressing, developing, and able to allow
every Venezuelan to be truly independent.
The old policies have failed solutions. Failed and authoritarian of ways
past have tried to respond to the social debt. Attempts ranging from those
thought the solution lay in an economic proposal, to those who believed
the answer was in ideological concepts. But the reality is that debt
still standing, even increasing.
It is not fair that Venezuelan families do not have a transparent system which
they can go right in the moments that most need it, but more importantly,
they also provide the tools to overcome situations
vulnerability.

What is our vision? We propose a new way and progress. One Way
which is built along the whole life of the person and that includes their
needs and possible contingencies since being in gestation until it reaches the
old age.
Your achievements are yours, and nobody can take them off, but it is not fair that someone
depend on social programs throughout his life.
Social programs should be thought to help those most in need out
overcome the difficulties and obstacles that life has given them, but also
Venezuelans should prevent others from falling into poverty traps.
Our commitment. Our government will ensure every Venezuelan support
the contingencies of life, without discrimination of any kind. We will not allow
the conditions in which Venezuelans are born determine the future of those
They want to work and progress to the country.
Where there is a Venezuelan who need us, we'll be there to serve us. That
It is my commitment to you. Together we can do.
THE WAY OF PROGRESS ALONG LIFE
The way forward is to be better today and tomorrow. Social programs have been
conceived until now as a help resolving momentarily inmediatista
a circumstance, but it does not solve the problems that cause it.

We have a plan and know how to do for solving these
core problems that aggravate every contingency. COMMITTED PLAN
YOU are thinking holistically, understanding that a new way
making policy should focus on the person and effective solutions approach it from
According to the life time it is.
to. That road begins at birth and was initially supported by services
maternal and child health care, to ensure the smooth running of the mother and
the little kids.
b. Then comes school, the opportunity to form ourselves from habits to
knowledge to develop, together with the values ​​of coexistence,
democracy and respect for others.
c. Then it comes be useful to society and ourselves, with our entry into
workplace through employment with quality.
d. It's time to make a new home, something that happens by chance to have
access to housing that is on stable ground, with utilities,
roads, recreational spaces and allow us to share with our
neighbors and the community to which we belong.
e. Throughout all this way is necessary to have the means to
that we and our families have a long, full and satisfying life,
thanks to a system of social protection and universal access to health system
social security that allow us to have a secure old age.

But this way we do alone: ​​the family is always with us, either
that from which we come from or subsequently formed. And our family is
our future.

It is possible that the family to which we, if we are lucky, you can support us
along the way. The PLAN committed to you that here we propose supports
all families without any form of discrimination, but with special emphasis on
those facing barriers alone can not overcome.
We will ensure that every Venezuelan to make your way forward and
being, without it being a problem to be born in a poor household or in conditions
unfavorable. The PLAN committed to you makes the Social State
much more than an ally of Venezuelan families: This is a new way
understanding power as a tool to serve those in need.

COMMITMENTS AND FIRST FIVE SOLUTIONS
Commitment 1
Zero Hunger, that no Venezuelan lie without food
In the country with the world's largest oil wealth is unacceptable that one
Venezuela to bed hungry. We anticipate that all Programs
Social associated with poverty, such as Mission or Mission Madres del Barrio Sons
Venezuela, are integrated into a plan of overcoming extreme poverty. Are you
monetary aid will be distributed on a basis that guarantees care who q
you need it, without political distinction, and allowing the restoration of rights
violated.
They are about 500 thousand families, 2.5 million Venezuelans who still live in poverty
extreme. Implement a system of food security for these families and
the first year of government will celebrate the goal of Zero Hunger.
Commitment 2
Progress care: no mother will suffer from lack of protection sui family
to. Child Care System: they are conditioned or build 5,000 centers
child care for children of working mothers, children who are under 6
years, in order to cover the current deficit of preschool care. This will be done
an overview of coverage, quality and vision of a service that includes the
educational and health strengthening. Additionally, this program will allow

generate sources of income no less than 20,000 new care mothers, who
They have a quality job.
b. Child support: In the first two years of government more than 3,000 centers will be created
Community-school support and guidance of complementary activities
sports and culture, in order to care for children of 6-12 years old.
c. Youth Guidance Program: will train about 1,500 youth groups
between 13 and 17 years in popular areas of our major urban centers,
They shall be assisted by technical staff, guidance in the management of the
sexuality, violence and social skills.
Commitment 3
Together we progress: no young leave high school
to. Training for Progress: create an effective national system for training
labor and entrepreneurship. Each region of the country will have technology
appropriate, adequate infrastructure and staffing necessary to ensure their
operation. This program will be aimed at the youth population that is
beneficiary of the educational missions, especially the large number of
Venezuelans who left these social programs because they do not
They covered their expectations or offered a real chance to get a job
quality or opportunity for entrepreneurship.
b. Back to School: There are more than 600,000 young people under 18 years
and they were excluded from school. The community classrooms are proposed

alternatives and nearby communities. They will be led by retired teachers and
community people with experience. Their work will target these children and
young people who left school early.
c. Special classes: will be space whose use will be for training and
training of people with cognitive disabilities, with the intention of leveling them
giving them a treatment that allows integration with their peers.
d. System of Vocational and Life Project: a network of services
guidance for young people, capable of generating in them the confidence to
styles aimed at promoting personal and family progress.
e. Sheltered Employment Plan: joint work between public and private sector for the
awareness by companies and institutions to integrate adolescents
workers, young graduates of treatment programs for addictions,
people with disabilities, people who were homeless.
Commitment 4
Support vulnerable: any elderly will be left to their fate and that of his
family
to. Ticket Food for all elderly.
b. Home for the Elderly Day: centers will be created for adults
seniors with physical limitations or requiring state of loneliness
accompaniment during the day. These homes are the linchpin of the
different plans and government programs targeting this population.

c. Drug subsidy for the elderly: A grant program was created to
diseases such as hypertension and diabetes, intended to avoid deterioration of
older people and allow their income may be intended for
other priorities.
Commitment 5
Let there be no barrier to any disabled person
to. Technical aids for persons with disabilities: strengthen the instances
They serve this population with a bank of technical aids (lenses, crutches, chairs
wheelchair, walker, cane, etc.) required to provide security in the
mobility of this population.
b. Pension for family members who care for people with disabilities.
c. Protected Employment Plan: we achieve the commitment of the productive sector to
provide opportunities for entering our population needs
special.
The importance of the family to successfully navigate the road
The most important thing is every Venezuelan priorities within the family.
Not only is the human group where we were born and raised: it is also the meeting
our affections, motivations and goals. When one member has a
problem, the couple, mother, father, siblings, grandparents, uncles and cousins ​​feel
that this problem also have them.

to. Families are the core of our social concern. In the family and in the
realization of the goals of each of its members is where happiness lies.
So the family makes the Progress worth the effort of each of us.
b. All progress. Our proposal is the progress of all Venezuelans,
but not viewed individually. Progressive family Progress
all. If a young person needs a grant, if a mother needs help to sustain
of their own, if a grandparent requires medicine or parent employment
better, are all needs. We have a plan to address each, but
comprehensive way: not as a patchwork quilt, linking with a short term response
here another there, but as a solid frame that gives real solutions.
c. The family as an engine of progress. Families are the core of our policy
social. Supporting families is the most efficient and fair way to give opportunities
to those in need, without discrimination, without differentiating between red or white,
yellow or blue. All Venezuelan families are necessary, because they are the
starting point of our social policy.
d. Create ideal conditions for the family. The family has a major role to
be the space of emotions and values ​​formation. For this to be possible is
necessary to create the ideal conditions, starting to fill the spaces
They have left gaps misguided public policies so far. So we create
educational and health facilities with quality and spaces for recreation of the whole
family. And thanks to generate quality jobs and salaries
overtake, we will have centers for children, systems

care, recreation and protection for grandparents. In addition to security in the
streets, the family will have the conditions to fulfill their important social function.
These early solutions are only part of the social path that we must build.
These social programs will articulate sectoral policies Education,
Health, Housing and Social Security are what constitute the component
structure of our government program.
These five commitments are guaranteed to progress, welfare, independence and
especially the happiness of Venezuelan families.

OIL FOR YOUR PROGRESS
With a committed and responsible government, Venezuelans have a country
where oil revenues are managed in a transparent and sustainable manner, a
use to respond to the main problems of Venezuelans and observe oil
a lever that can build equal opportunities for all.
PDVSA will remain a 100% state that ensure legal certainty
and respect for the rules. We will have an active role in OPEC and the deal
rightful place within the organization, making a company PDVSA
production that meets the established contracts and promote investment and
sustainable growth of our economy.
Our commitment is to the country, industry and oil workers.
We will need everyone's effort to open the doors to the future. Therefore I
We will ensure the necessary training to achieve better management of our
oil resources, while jobs will have high quality.
In today's industry, the number of accidents has oil workers
increased. In addition, between 2009 and 2012 there have been over 15,500
spills and leaks that have affected the operation of the industry, bringing with it
environmental problems. This situation will change thanks to the political will,
training and effective maintenance of our facilities.
Our plan is that Venezuelans count with a country that guarantees use
responsible for oil revenues, with priority on responsible investment

our people and solving their problems. We have a plan and know how
make it happen.
Oil will cease to be the limit of our possibilities and will become a
Lever steps to build progress and inclusion, initiating a development are
unprecedented in our history. Together we can do and we need you and your
eager to join this commitment.

OUR COMMITMENT
• WE WILL PRODUCE MORE: To ensure the maximum utilization of our
oil and gas potential. Our oil will be a valuable and reliable source of
energy for all Venezuelans.
• LEVER FOR PROGRESS: Ensure that industry growth
Oil is a true dynamic of progress. Through diversification and
the generation of national productive capacities generate new sources
quality employment for Venezuelans.
• MORE THAN OIL: Bringing the Venezuelan oil industry and
ensure that our energy and oil wealth comes primarily our
citizens. Petroleum drive the production progress
Venezuela: the gas will have to ensure the stability of the electricity sector,
We will produce fertilizer that requires our agriculture, and fuel and
chemicals necessary for us to have increasingly made products
Venezuela.
• YOUR WEALTH, your priorities: use oil revenues so
responsible and ensure that all Venezuelans are direct beneficiaries of the
oil wealth, giving priority attention to the situation Venezuelans more
vulnerable.

HOW ARE WE GOING TO DO IT?
WE WILL PRODUCE MORE
Goal: We will double our oil production (6 MMB / D)
We will achieve working together with the public and private sector, in an environment of
confidence, stability and transparency.
• Strengthening the institutional framework to build trust and credibility.
or will maintain full state ownership of PDVSA: oil belongs to all
Venezuelans.
or will ensure the managerial, financial and operational autonomy of PDVSA.
or We will ensure compliance with the legal framework, respecting existing contracts.
• Promoting public and private investment in exploration and
production.
or will activate in our conventional areas, fields with techniques
recovery of mature basins.
or will accelerate in the Orinoco Oil Belt implementing new
projects.
or projects shall confine production to offshore development
gas.
•

Supporting the formation of human capital in the oil industry.
or will execute, hand in hand with universities and technical institutes, program
training for the sector.

• We will ensure the safety of our workers, communities and the
ambient.
According to the Oil Sowing Plan, and should be producing 5.8 million
bpd. However, we have not reached the goal we were promised.
Less production means less resources to invest in the lives of the
Venezuelans have reached planned, would have about US $ 45,000 million
additional resources that, for example, had allowed to build in a year
1,900,000 homes, 9,000 schools or 2,300 hospitals.
Venezuela has the largest oil reserves in the world: we
about 20% of world reserves, but only generate 3.5% of the
world production.

LEVER FOR PROGRESS

Goal: More oil, more opportunities (400,000 jobs Quality)

• We will leverage the growth and economic diversification with our oil.
or support the development of the entire value chain in the industry, and sectors
related.
or will generate inputs that domestic production needs to grow
(Fuels and petrochemicals), and especially gas for the electricity sector.
or Will devote resources to investment in infrastructure (education: 1000 high schools).

or promote the creation of 400,000 quality jobs (90,000 direct and
310,000 indirect)
Yes

doubled

the

production,

tripled

the

income

to invest

in

the

Venezuelans, keeping domestic consumption and respecting the agreements.

We are exchanging barrels of oil products could be made in
Venezuela: oil, sugar, beans, meat, rice. We must seize every
talents and convert oil revenues into the starting point to diversify our
economy.

MORE THAN OIL

Goal: The oil revenues as a starting point to diversify our
economy

• We will create technology centers for the development of human capital as a whole
with universities, technical institutes and oil companies.
• Ensure that all Venezuelans have access to fuels
They need. The energy wealth to meet the needs of our country.
• In Venezuela you not miss a day of work because of darkness. We will ensure
that all Venezuelans have with the public electricity service, through
investment and efficient maintenance of the thermoelectric sector.

• We will ensure that all derivatives linked to oil production
agricultural, from fertilizers to support the infrastructure plan in relation to
agricultural roads, are used efficiently and directed towards solutions
for our families.

Today we depend more than ever on oil, while our production
Oil has fallen in recent years and are producing 300,000 barrels
day less than in 2005.
When we give our wealth to other countries could lose resources
be invested in Venezuela: in 2011 alone, Venezuela failed to receive close
US $ 7,000 billion in exports [averaging US $ 100 per barrel] to account
oil delivered in special conditions. Those resources had we allowed
build 440,000 homes, 2,100 schools and 500 hospitals in one year.

YOUR WEALTH YOUR PRIORITIES

Goal: The income will be used Venezuelans.

With our oil resources we will ensure the programs:

COMMITTED TO YOU
That no family lie without food
• Zero Hunger: ensuring supply through monetary aid
those most in need. 2.5 million Venezuelans who are in
extreme poverty.
No mother will suffer from lack of protection for your family
• System of childcare: 30,000 child care centers. 39% of the 7 million
Venezuelan households have a woman as head of household.
No youth leave high school
• 1000 high schools: The new high schools ensure that no young person leaves his studies
lack of infrastructure. Today, 27 100 young people in Venezuela do not receive
secondary education.
No elderly will be left to their fate and that of his family
• Ticket Food for all elderly.
Let there be no barrier to any disabled person
• Pension for family members who care for people with disabilities
Preschool for all
• school fees equivalent to a monetary aid, to ensure that all
children access to early education, starting with 500,000 children between 4 and
Six years in poverty.

Our oil wealth is enormous, and should serve to ensure that all our
children enter preschool. We must convert that non-renewable resource
something forever grateful.
Our young people deserve to finish high school, without leaving
your community or leave school to help with a salary. Our Plan
1000 Lyceum ensures a future full of opportunities: in every place where there is a
young eager to study, you will be available to the best facilities
achieve your goals.

HARVESTING YOUR PROGRESS

WHAT IS THE CURRENT SITUATION IN OUR COUNTRY?

Venezuela has immense agricultural potential:
• 30 million hectares of land with agriculture, livestock and forestry purposes.
• 19 states with farming, and 15 of these with agriculture as the first
economic activity.
• maritime area of ​​650,000 km2 and rights fishing fleets at sea.
• benign and stable tropical climate.

However, farming has fallen 22% in the past three years:
• 80% of the Creole pavilion is imported.
• Maize production is the same as in the 80s.
• For the first time since the colony, import coffee.
• In 2011, 25% fell in vegetable production.
• Milk production per Venezuela is stagnant since 1990 and is in
the same levels in 1950.

Our domestic production covers less and less of our consumption
• import at least 70% of the food we eat.

• In 1999 we exported rice, plantains, bananas, coffee; corn we autoabastecíamos
and meat. Today we have to import all these items to meet consumption
national.
• Our foods come from other countries. We import from:
or US rice, white corn, yellow corn, wheat.
or Brazil: chicken, coffee, sugar, bulls for slaughter, beef, soy, milk powder, milk
UHT, concentrated orange.
or Argentina: yellow corn, meat, milk powder, UHT milk, yellow cheese,
beans, wheat, soybeans, soybean oil.
or Mexico: white corn, orange concentrate.
or Nicaragua: coffee, bulls for slaughter, meat, milk UHT.
or Uruguay: despostada meat, milk powder, UHT milk, yellow cheese.

Employment opportunities in the countryside have declined:
• Rural wages are considerably lower than urban.
• Work in the field is very unstable by agricultural cycles and are subject to the
climate risks.
• 62% of farmers working in the informal sector, without benefits
labor.
• Between 2005 and 2011, 85,000 farm workers left the sector and 59 000
Farmers lost their jobs.

• Currently, more than 500,000 farm workers do not have employment with
quality.

Farm workers who produce our food, deserve more:
• 254,000 households depend on agricultural activities:
or 94 thousand households living in extreme poverty (37%), measured by basic needs
unsatisfied.
or 109,000 homes are built with inferior materials (43%).
or 236,000 households are associated with land of 100 hectares or less (93%).
• The main livestock states have the worst quality indicators
of life. For example, Barinas has low level of income and standard of living
Smart is the poorest state in Venezuela. And Portuguesa state is less
access to sanitary sewers or wells in the country.
• The producers of our country are affected by insecurity: denounced
1,150 kidnappings in 2011, while 350 were registered in Colombia.

What happens in the field but suffer all Venezuelans:
• We can hardly get food we want: a shortage in 2012 was 14% and
MERCAL network reaches 50%.
• There is little variety to choose from: before getting an average of 6 marks
category. Now only 78% get less choice 1,3.Hay by category.

• Decreased quality of the food we consume 40% of the population
It lacks the resources to access to adequate food and 10% of the
population suffers from malnutrition.
• It has greatly increased the cost of food:
or between 1998 and 2011, headline inflation was 1,269% and the food was
2.067%.
or only between July 2010 and July 2012, food prices have almost doubled in price:
foods in July 2010 were bought with Bs. 100, today purchased
with Bs. 183.
o The minimum wage [Bs.F 2047.48] barely covers the food basket
regulations (Bs.F 1989.09)

Misguided policies have only managed to have fewer opportunities in the field:
• The central government has expropriated, confiscated or "rescued" 4 million hectares
with agriculture, livestock and forestry purposes. Of these, only 2% are productive.
• they have been awarded 3.5 million hectares with agrarian charters, bailment or other
precarious occupation titles or property, limiting access of farmers
the credit and the possibility of planning.
• Agricultural drainage infrastructure, roads, and electrical service is terrible
conditions throughout the country.
• The central government has 51% of the storage capacity of cereals
They are produced domestically.

• The central government has a monopoly on supplies to manufacture agrochemicals,
controls the marketing of fertilizers and agricultural machinery.

HARVESTING YOUR PROGRESS

OUR COMMITMENTS
• Creole Food
In Venezuela we can be proud of our production to meet the
domestic consumption.
Creole food, produced by Venezuelan hands, ensure livelihoods
our families and be a source of pride in the world, because we
export some products with high quality.
We have a clear goal and a plan to achieve it: the end of our government, more
70% of the food basket will be done in Venezuela. We have everything to
I do!

• Venezuelan Hands
The most valuable of our country is its people, their effort, talent we have and
that we must take, but do it in a fair way that results in
progress for all. Quality employment, productive and well-paid, allow
that rural families live quiet. Farm workers are those
know the land, live it, they feel it every day and know how to make progress.
We tend their hands to achieve our goals.

• Progressing the peasant
We will raise the quality of life of rural families. We ensure that every
family and every business have access to quality public services. It is in these
villages where the country's future is decided and we must give priority to
They deserve. In addition, families will be supported in the joints: where there is a
Venezuelan who need us, there get to reach out.

CREOLE FOOD
How are we going to achieve?
• Building Trust through agreements and teamwork.
No expropriation or more jobs.
or more agreements and fewer conflicts. Ensure an atmosphere of dialogue and
understanding between producers, workers and the State, to promote
the necessary arrangements for the greatest welfare for Venezuelans:
more production, better jobs, better prices. In particular: regulations
Prices under the consensus.
• Expanding access to financing and insurance.
and Agricultural Finance Programme Entrepreneur. We will promote
micro-finance agricultural entrepreneur to ensure you get the
resources in a timely and sufficient for starting an initiative
productive. The funds come from the public-private joint effort. They

guiding the credit to agriculture, by designing and agriculture portfolios
tax incentives.
• Providing training, in agreement with the communities and the private sector, which
participate in identifying the needs of the region.
Young or productive. The young people will be supported to its definition
from vocational high schools, where the culmination of education will be promoted
high school. Young people who have a vocation to the field may be formed in
agricultural technical areas, to promote their inclusion in productive work.
or agricultural training centers for progress. In accordance with institutions
public and private agricultural research and training, each region will have
at least one training center, where rural producers can
access courses and technical and professional updating.
• Ensuring regular and quality public services and infrastructure offer.
Roads or agricultural quality. 60,000 Km recover found in
país.Rehabilitar poor conditions in the rural road network through the
transfer of powers and resources to municipalities and communities
organized.

or rural drains. Promote the rehabilitation and construction of drainage works and
appropriate sanitation, crop protection risks
flooding.

or reliable electric service: zero blackouts. Further electrification
Venezuelan countryside rehabilitating transmission networks to avoid cuts
service.
• Institutions Near: promote decentralization of institutions
regulate agricultural activities to streamline care needs
field, facilitate the allocation of investment resources in the field and promote
peasants exercise control over the implementation of investment projects.

STRENGTH OF REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL PROGRESS
Employment Plan for all
•

Portuguese-Guarico Cojedes-axis: First producers of yellow corn, corn
white rice.

•

Barinas-Apure axis: It has some of the largest numbers of heads
buffalo and cattle.

•

Lara-Yaracuy axis: major producer of coffee, sugarcane,
beans, onion, potato and tomato.

•

Sucre: It hosts 25% of the national coastline and is the main producer
fishing (50% of national production)

•

Andean Hub: United agricultural tradition, producers of potatoes, vegetables,
coffee, tomatoes, fruits and livestock products.

VENEZUELAN HANDS
How are we going to achieve?
• Activating the Regional Agricultural Forces of Progress, which will become
more opportunities, more stable and well-paying jobs. Not only
they create jobs in agriculture with the revival of the countryside, but in
infrastructure, health services and comoeducación, transport and agribusiness.
or will generate 25,000 direct jobs and 50,000 indirect jobs per year.
• Providing training and technical assistance to farmworkers., For
soil improvement, improved fertilizer, seed development, increased
storage capacity and improved marketing chain. The
training programs pay particular attention to those currently facing
greater difficulties in accessing employment: the younger and older adults.
or laproductividad will increase our farmers and facilitate their
into the labor market.
• Promoting social inclusion in the safety of our peasants.
or procedures will facilitate access to and improve the safety record
Social for farm workers, encouraging employers
register their workers and small farmers register
individually.
• Investing in the development of the field, by implementing
policies aimed at creating more jobs in the field, executing works
focused on improving roads in rural areas, irrigation systems and

drainage and health and education infrastructure in order to develop the
agricultural potential of each region.
or will encourage the stability of employment in rural areas.
• Ensuring the placement of the crops of farmers. The state
It shall undertake to purchase part of the crop in key areas to
promote rice, fish, fruit, meat, white corn, milk and sugar.
or Peasants will have a secure source of income.
• regularizing the land of our farmers. The producers
they will have the ownership of their land, for which the formalities cualsimplificaremos
for registration of the property, and will have transparent institutions and
close to resolving disputes.
or will improve access to credit and production planning.

PROGRESS IN THE FIELD
How are we going to achieve?
• Providing security in the field, under the Security Plan for all.
or Zero tolerance of violence: no more extortion or kidnapping.
Retrieving or spaces: will promote the use of land for producción.No
there will be "no man's land" where safeguard irregular groups, especially
in border areas.
• Ensuring quality education for Venezuelans with vocation to the field.

More and better high schools or in our rural areas, under the 1000 plan schools.
No young abandon their studies due to lack of a nearby high school.
Public transport or school for rural areas. No child or young stop
study by no means to get to school.
• Ensuring quality health field.
or will improve the infrastructure and provision of primary care and
hospital in rural areas. In each state, a hospital quality is
say emergency services, intensive care and surgery.
• Promoting housing construction quality for our farmers.
or planning will ensure utilities (electricity, water,
drainage) for 200 thousand homes in rural areas.
• No grandfather of the field will be abandoned to their fate or that of his family.
or Actualmente3,2 million people have retirement age in the country. For
2012, 2.2 million people are in the social security system: even
is 1 million people who are not receiving the pension they
It corresponds.
or universal pension system.
Shopping Ticket for all or elderly.

The progress of the field will bring more welfare to all Venezuelans
• We will improve the supply of food for all Venezuelans:

or the shelves of our supplies and markets are full of food
we seek, made in Venezuela.
• We will achieve that in Venezuela there Zero Hunger.
or will ensure access to farm products of those most in
They need.
• Food inflation is low and stable.
o The increase in domestic production in an environment of trust, allow
We attain price stability that will secure the value of wages
Venezuelans.

MADE IN VENEZUELA

The most important resource is the talent of Venezuela Venezuelans. Our
capabilities and our vocations will build the country we deserve, thanks to
our work and our wealth. But for that to be possible it is necessary
change that allows us to realize the potential of each of us to benefit
Venezuelans. Together we can do. And you're the force that change.
If you progress, all progress. Imagine a country where we all have
opportunities to grow and we accompany each other without discrimination on
Progress way that lets you meet your goals. Every town, every city and every
They have been converted to generate opportunities.
The development of tourism, agriculture, manufacturing, basic industries and
petroleum and petroleum forge a diversified, stable, solid and reliable economy.
Goods and services "Made in Venezuela" will symbol of Venezuelan talent
become guarantee of quality, reliability and affordability, in and out of our
borders.
The main benefit will be to achieve a strong economy, capable of giving the
opportunity to grow and develop with enough income to meet our
needs, save and give economic security to our homes, especially
those most in need. In addition, we achieve and curb price rises thanks
a guiding government working with the private sector and communities,

It is highly productive and responsible. Achieve price stability
that will secure the value of wages of all Venezuelans and government
promote

he

dialogue

Y

the

Agreements

between

workers,

producers

Y

Marketers promote that stability. We have a plan and know how
make it happen.
In this country we will build together our main product is the pride
all Venezuelans feel increasingly that the world will say "Made in
Venezuela ".

1. Made in Venezuela: our commitments
The country will build together we begin to create a trusted environment for the
investment,

based

in

Institutions

fair,

reduction

from

obstacles

for

he

entrepreneurship and promoting the initiative of the social economy and the economy
private but with a special emphasis on promoting the increased production
National for many goods and services we consume Venezuelans
They are "Made in Venezuela".
In addition to create 3 million new jobs in six years with quality, product
PLAN employment for all, the commitments that we have raised and
thanks to conquer PLAN MADE IN VENEZUELA are:
• Stimulate the production made by Venezuelans and Venezuelans.
• Sustaining growth of domestic production between 6% and 7% each year.
• End product shortages.
• Reduce the amount of inflation to single digits and we will keep it stable.
• Promote exports and diversify our economy.
Fulfilling these commitments will achieve change our current situation. In
recent years, Venezuela has become a country that does not appeal to
doing business due to wrong policies that threaten those who want to invest.
The way we propose to you and your family will make every Venezuelan I can
consider the goals you want to grow, because we have a climate of trust and
for equal opportunities for all. The future has already begun!

2. These commitments involve us all
To meet these commitments, our Government:
• Decrease the paperwork and bureaucracy that currently hinder the creation of
new businesses and developing existing ones.
• guide the urban planning in order to establish areas for development
tourism, agricultural, residential, industrial and commercial.
• Provide infrastructure and services necessary to the whole nation [roads,
airports, ports, efficient public services such as electricity and drainage]
so that there are real possibilities of competitiveness in all our sectors
production.
•

It will provide the necessary infrastructure to ensure productivity
Venezuelans, with colleges, universities and training institutes, in addition to
hospitals and primary care centers.

• Ensure the safety of life of Venezuelans.
• Implement fiscal and monetary policies, accountable and transparent.
The role of business is important to the achievement of these objectives, both which
like those that already exist thanks to arise that generate trust our
government. That is why companies, both private and public, will:
• Increase investment and, consequently, the production of goods "Made in
Venezuela ", creating quality new jobs.

• Respect the rights of workers and promote the improvement of their
working conditions over time.
• Teaming up with academia to innovate and improve
production processes, including reducing the environmental impact.
• Provide training mechanisms for professional and personal growth
all employees.
• Keep for dialogue with the government, communities and workers,
especially to reach agreement on the issue price.
• Contribute to the social, cultural and educational projects that enhance
life of its employees and the communities involved with these companies.

3. How to achieve more and better opportunities
A trust
Through agreements and joint work between the public sector, the private initiative, the
social economy and communities achieve an environment of trust:
• Having clear rules and fair institutions, everyone will know their rights and
responsibilities and authorities will be able to monitor compliance without
discrimination.
• Ensuring a climate of dialogue and understanding between producers,
consumers and government with more agreements and fewer conflicts. That will guarantee

that regulations to domestic production allow us to generate jobs,
protect workers and ensure sustainability.
• More companies are more jobs: when a company expropriated expropriate the
direct and indirect jobs it generates. In our government there will be no more
expropriation of jobs, but a climate of trust where the state and its
institutions give guarantees of stability.
Today we are like this:
• The Central Government has sought to control domestic production and instead of
dialogue to reach agreements and teamwork, the government threatens and attacks
private enterprise.
• Between 2005 and 2011, more than 2,534 rapes are reported to private property and
1,167 expropriations.
• Between 2001 and 2011, the number of employers in Venezuela rose from 630 000 to 430
one thousand. This loss is mainly due to the destruction of small and medium
businesses and result in more than a million jobs with less quality.

A GOVERNMENT GUIDING, NO CONTROLLER
The Government will be a counselor to invest effort and capital in promoting
growth of domestic production. So we will support initiatives that result in
more and better jobs and contribute to improving the quality of life of
Venezuelans for:

• Ensure worker protection and the environment, promoting that employers
become counselors productivity and meet timely payment of
salaries and benefits.
•

Articulate the "Regional Forces of Progress" for the development of the sectors
corresponding with the economic strengths of each region, thanks to processes
effective cooperation and strengthening of trade union and community ties.

• Implement

policies

prosecutors,

currency

Y

currency

responsible

Y

transparent, allowing us to control inflation and ensure the
Venezuelans a stable economy.
Today we are like this:
• Instead of facilitating the processes to create more companies and that are more
opportunities, and permisologías regulations have become increasingly
complicated and non-transparent. Venezuela is the country with more complications
to open a new company in the Americas: on average, it takes
141 days and 17 procedures to start a business. Open a business in Venezuela takes
nearly triple the necessary formalities in Mexico (6 steps), more than 3 times
formalities necessary in Peru (five steps), 10 times longer than necessary in
Colombia (14 days) and 20 times longer than in Chile (7 days).

DEVELOPMENT OF OUR CAPABILITIES
Through a National Training System for Progress our government
committed to the development of the capacities of all Venezuelans. The

specializations in technical and administrative areas that promote productivity
of our employees and the success of entrepreneurial initiatives will be one
priority to create opportunities for everyone equally. Productive Youth: plans
education for work aimed at young people between 16 and 24 years. Training
Progress: education system to give added value to professionals and
unemployed technicians, helping them better opportunities.
Formalizing

the

informal:

Training

Y

Advice

for

the

little ones

entrepreneurs, with the intention of passing the formal market and thus
have all the benefits of Law.
Today we are like this:
• Many Venezuelans have not had training opportunities
necessary to exploit their productive potential: 75% of the schools attached to
Ministry of Education infrastructure failures. In 2011, according to figures
officers, 29 of every 100 children receive early childhood education; 7 out of 100 children
receiving primary education and 27 100 young people are not educated
high school. Lack of education and training policies for productive work.
For 2001, the INCE courses offered over 32,500, while for 2008 already
They had fallen by more than 10,900 courses, reaching 21,600.

A STRONG ECONOMY
Thanks to the development of tourism, agriculture, manufacturing, and basic inputs
Oil become a lever increase our production Progress

national and forge a diversified, stable, solid and reliable economy. This us
will: Promote increasing domestic production, ensuring that our
economy takes us from goods and services "Made in Venezuela" to improve the
supply. In addition to controlling the price rise due to increased supply.
Ensure transparency and fiscal responsibility of government to
maintain the stability of the national economy and, in particular, prices,
safeguarding salary of Venezuelans. Encourage savings, with interest rates
that protect the value of savings of Venezuelans established in accordance with
the private sector.
Today we are like this:
• Venezuela is the 5th largest economy in Latin America, but between 1999 and
2011 was less advanced countries. The average income of a Venezuelan
It increased only 17% in 13 years. That is just over half of what grew
income of a Brazilian (32%), and a third which increased the income of a Peruvian
(58%). Our inflation rate of the past 13 years was ten times
average Latin American. Between 1999 and 2011, the accumulated inflation
It was 1.269%, surpassing the cumulative increase of wages of the population
(1.018%). In 2012, the shortage index has remained around 13.7%
similar to the average recorded in 2011. This value is well above
considered normal, between 5% and 6%.

National Infrastructure Plan
The plan "Made in Venezuela" is closely connected with our Plan
National Infrastructure to ensure the maintenance of works and
public services necessary to promote the competitiveness of businesses in the
country. Although our government program plans are all interconnected,
Plan mentioned three parts are connected directly to the creation of more and
Better oportunities:
• Plan of mobility and mass transit: To promote the versatile flow of people,
inputs and outputs inside and out of the country through the recovery,
updating and maintenance of national roads and ports infrastructure and
airports.
• completed works: The country is full of unfinished works, so we
We committed to culminarlas thanks to Venezuelan talent. Especially regarding
to culminate investment plan incorporating electric generation 20,082,016.
• Infrastructure for all maintenance and integration of infrastructure
in key areas of services for Venezuelans [education, health, housing,
job training], special
Today we are like this:
•

We are the third country with the worst infrastructure in Latin America, after Haiti and
Paraguay.

• The national electricity service is unreliable and dips and outages affecting
most of the country, causing loss of hours of work tools and machinery.
In addition, our road network is inadequate and poorly maintained, affecting
competitiveness.
• In our ports, it takes 49 days to export a container and 71 days to
import: more than 5 times of what it takes to Chile import or export a
container [6 days in both cases].
4. By Venezuelans and Venezuelans
To facilitate productive investment will increase domestic production and create
many new quality jobs, those who wish can create your own
business and thereby add enthusiasm, vocations and effort of every Venezuelan in
the Made in Venezuela.

VENEZUELAN FARMERS COMPETITIVE
We will increase the competitiveness using information technologies and facilitating
creation of new businesses by reducing barriers to be put now
investment.
• Creating a network of one-stop shop for business registration and investment
national and international will automate procedures and permisologías
required to open and operate a business, always within the law and with the
Government as a counselor.

• Thanks to a support service for the creation and expansion of small and
sized enterprises,

all

Venezuelans have the information,

training and technical assistance necessary for progress.
• By promoting reliable access to production inputs accelerating the
our economic growth and diversification.
Today we are like this:
• Currently, Venezuela and Haiti are the least competitive countries in Latin
America.
• We are the second least transparent country in Latin and less
South transparent.
• Between 1999 and 2011, imports have more than tripled from US $
14,500 million to US $ 46,400 million. Currently, 3 out of 10 goods which
offered in the country are imported.

Better wages for Venezuelans
Since the national government will promote that Venezuelans get better
wages that enable them earn better and better income to buy
more quality products in a timely manner, by reducing inflation and
to increase domestic production. Your salary will not only be better to be greater, but
because you can buy more capacity and even have savings because:

• Training of employees increases the quality of what is produced, what
It allows an increase in profit.
• To facilitate access to loans aimed at improving capital allocation
improve worker productivity is achieved.
• When tax incentives and access to credit facilities are granted, the
increases the productivity of each worker are remarkable and this allows
wage and conditions improvements.
• The State shall monitor the implementation of collective agreements.
• To stop inflation, increases your ability to save and you project your goals
Safely.
Today we are like this:
• Between 2009 and 2011, Venezuela had the highest inflation in the world. We are the only
country in the world where things now cost more than double by the end of 2008.
Since 2008, the close of each year, the cost of the food basket has
exceeded the minimum wage. Currently, the minimum wage of Bs. 1780.44 and
basic food basket costs Bs. 1831.55.

• 6.2 million Venezuelans have no formal employment: 1.2 million are
5.05 million unemployed workers are informal, ie not having a
stable employment and does not have the benefits and protections of the law.
• At the end of 2011, more than 9 million Venezuelans are poor: they have an income
that does not allow them to cover the basic basket (food basket plus other assets
and services considered basic).

PLAN "MY OWN BUSINESS"
We will promote entrepreneurship of small and medium enterprises, so that
Venezuelans can develop productive projects that allow them to achieve their
economic stability and also generate quality jobs. We will achieve this by:
• Encourage widespread access to credit and support to entrepreneurs with training and
technical assistance.
• Ensure access for all Venezuelans to Social Security.
• Facilitate the regularization of land ownership and where bienhechurías
entrepreneurs carry out their activities.
Today we are like this:
• 3.9 million Venezuelans are self-employed. Of these, 94% (3.7 million)
Informal workers are not professionals, who have insured
benefits of the law.
• There is currently a low access to formal credit: just 3% of microentrepreneurs
resorting to formal credit, since most goes to informal lenders or their
family and friends.
• 3.2 million people have retirement age in the country, and 2.2 million
people are in the social security system. That is, 1 million people not
They are receiving the pension they deserve. In addition, recipients receive
approved the minimum wage pension is not enough to cover the basket
food.

PLAN PRODUCTION AND EXPORTS
With the intention to increase domestic production and reduce imports
We support those who invest in the country to achieve development in all our
potential. Thus, everything that has the stamp Made in Venezuela we
allow meet domestic consumption with high quality products also
export permit by increasing production.
• We will give tax incentives to exporters to reduce tax payments
those companies that export more than Bs. 50,000,000
• State purchases are an incentive that ensures the success of investments
country, as the state becomes a client of infant industries with
intended to promote growth.
• The creation of Banco Venezolano de Exportaciones allow foster
Venezuelan financing of inputs and products from abroad.
• The state will encourage a significant part of the inputs used in the
international investment projects in Venezuela come from producers
nationals.
• A strategic tariff policy based on tariffs according adapt
with the trade agreements signed by Venezuela, will allow the industry
develop national and access to new markets under better conditions
than today.

Today we are like this:
• Between 1999 and 2011, Venezuela received 11 times less FDI
the average of the major countries of Latin America and the Caribbean.
• Between 1999 and 2011, non-oil exports as part of our
Total exports, went from 20% to represent just 5%.
• Only between 2009 and mid-2011, our steel production fell by 25%
22% iron, steel bars 26%, 18% and bauxite.
Within a framework of economic stability, interest rates facilitate access to
credit Venezuelan producers, especially those most in need. He
especially credit initiatives to promote entrepreneurship and the
access to basic goods and services for the welfare of families, such as housing and
education.
With clear rules, teamwork and trust we will produce more, use the
resources responsibly and ensure that the benefits reach all
Venezuelans. In this country we will build together our main product is the
pride that all Venezuelans feel for each time the world says
Made in Venezuela.

TOGETHER BUILDING YOUR PROGRESS
It is commitment and achieve real solutions to the problems of
Venezuelans.
Ours is a new way of doing politics. We understand topics such as housing,
services, public space and roads in a comprehensive way, linking health,
education, employment and security. We know that you can live better.
This view is committed to measures that since our first day as a government,
infrastructure designed to bring solutions will translate immediately
benefits for you and your family, quality of life, in Progress.
For more than fourteen years old ways of doing politics they have attended
infrastructure as a provider of long term solutions or expensive
emergency response in specific situations, which often
arising from lack of timely diagnosis and responsible maintenance. And that vision has
allowed huge amounts of money today are compromised by corruption and
broken promises, when they could be invested in solutions.
So BUILDING TOGETHER YOUR PROGRESS has its main hub in you and
your needs. We know the nature of the problems and know how to carry
out solutions will build what we need, project what
We deserve and maintain, improve and make good use of what we already have.
We need a government to manage, administer, maintain and preserve with
national infrastructure efficiency, but understand that your home and your

community are the backbone of everything. Since we did in Miranda, despite the
obstacles that the central government will put our management. And we will in
Venezuela, thanks to the joint efforts of all sectors involved and talent
Venezuela, allowing our people to be part of building the future
we deserve.
It is to do better, but above all about doing it the right way. My
commitment is that every work, every system, every project starts is completed in
time schedule, is within a transparent planning management
resources and achieve working together, giving priority to works that have
greater impact on the quality of life of Venezuelans. The current state of great
structures, roads, bridges, utilities and hospitals are the result of
political whim to centralize and politicize skills, away from the
Venezuelan solutions.
The impact on the lives of Venezuelans of responsible management
infrastructure is enormous. The country is full of foundation stones that are already
monuments to lie. We have too much waiting time.
The axis of building together your progress is your home and community
because it is from there that we will build Progress. It is time to undertake works
let us join hands, roads that lead to progress. What we believe in
decentralization, effective and transparent management of the works. And having as
your priority housing and living conditions that you and your family deserve.

We know that having a home and live in peace is not just having a roof, but have
access to quality public services, public health, education and opportunities for
all alike. Yes it is and build the country we want: if you progress, all
progress.
The future has already begun. Each of us is determined to get the solutions to
your problems and why we're TOGETHER BUILDING YOUR PROGRESS.
It's time to realize the country we want. Together we can do.
1. A comprehensive vision: Manage, manage, maintain and preserve
Our vision of the national infrastructure involves all three levels of government.
In working together, and with the talent of Venezuelans, there will
necessary to carry out the necessary steps to transform positively
your life and your family. Invest rather than spend, with planning
responsible and transparent management of the budget to avoid huge
losses that have generated corruption and improvisation.
OUR COMMITMENTS
MANAGE: management of public infrastructure is comprehensive, planned,
cohesive and transparent. We will emphasize the optimization of management,
administration, maintenance and operation of existing infrastructure
achieve maximum benefits possible for you and your family with each Bolivar invested.

• State participation should go beyond emergency care. A
planning to give priority to works by its positive impact on life
Venezuelans, building and articulated definitive works on a project
urbanism that is able to expand according to the needs of each
community.
• With decentralization and coordination with decentralized agencies
We will approach the solutions to the Venezuelans. While centralism search
control

each

sector

for

to benefit

from

the

hiring,

the

decentralization helps each level of government appropriate, effective and
transparent in finding solutions.
• The active and meaningful participation of communities in each of the
stages in making decisions about priorities, grants,
concessions and planning of infrastructure must be part
fundamentals of this new vision.
MANAGE: the works are carried out under clear and transparent rules,
assigning them to the body offering the maximum public value at the lowest cost
possible. This is how we will overcome the mentality of "contratismo", typical of the
old ways of doing politics and insists on the construction of new
works as the only solution to the problems, increasing costs and encouraging
corruption.
• Efficient management of existing works from the first day of
Government, taking advantage of their potential and giving proper use.

• Transparency in budget management and income accounts each
work, always involving the three levels of government.
• Compliance at the time of delivery of the works, giving priority to
those that most directly affect the lives of Venezuelans.
KEEP: thanks to a diagnostic responsible for the current state of all the
national infrastructure, attention may be given to works that need it most and
foresee any situation, considering the happiness and welfare
Venezuelans.
• each project would serve you with the necessary measures and at the right time
responsibly to prevent situations that for years have affected the
lives of our families for lack of planning.
• Identification of the main problems and needs of heritage
infrastructure of the country, to articulate the alternative projects to
Venezuelans give security to be provided by the state.
• Design programs to national infrastructure periodic maintenance,
involving universities and public and private sectors, so that
do maintenance works a policy of national scope
involving the Venezuelan talent and who are experienced in training,
ensuring the sustainability of these programs.
KEEP: the infrastructure of a country can generate so many benefits
as new employment opportunities and diversification of the national economy.

Preserve our architectural, urban and infrastructural heritage is a
pending with Venezuelan important task.
• Assess the status of each of the buildings belonging to the State
architectural value, with special emphasis on those who are receiving
foreign or use other than originally intended, to address the
necessary solutions in the shortest possible time.
• Enable

the

connections

necessary

between

the

authorities

decentralized

universities and communities to prioritize conservation priorities
within the infrastructural assets.
• Encourage architectural interest as a power of diversification
economy of some communities, with emphasis on the potentials that have
to do with development sectors such as cultural tourism and strengthening
local identity as a factor generating opportunities.

2. Works that unite us: Investing in Venezuelan and achieve
solutions
You need to build works that will allow us to progress at all, thanks to the
generating benefits in our lives in terms of connectivity, mobility and
developing. Our government will give priority to works that have greater impact
in your life and your family, through its impact on quality of life and
contribution to the diversification of the economy. Also they come here and works

Maintenance to be executed to bring public services
all Venezuelans.
OUR COMMITMENTS ON UTILITY
• Electricity and zero blackouts stable: we solve problems
deficit generation and transmission and distribution problems throughout the
country.
• Implementation of the National Electricity Plan 2013-2018 and, in particular, conclude the
works 22 electricity generation projects currently underway,
especially those with already acquired and still to install machinery.
Incorporate or Tocoma Hydroelectric Plant: 2,300 MW.
or improve the supply of gas as fuel for our plants
thermoelectric, as Planta Centro.
o Increasing the availability of installed generation capacity
now and replace obsolete and inefficient machinery and equipment.
o Perform maintenance projects and major repairs
thermal facilities.
or improve the transmission and distribution network, through the completion of the 28
transmission projects currently underway.
or incorporation of a 230 kV submarine cable in the transmission network, for
energy exchange between the Paraguana Peninsula and Coro.
o Strengthen the Andean system at 400 kV between Cabudare and Barinas.
o Incorporate new submarine cable to the island of Margarita.

o Ensure public lighting in coordination with local governments and
communities that participate in identifying needs and
failures.

• Drinking water: water supply rehabilitation and expansion of national and
treatment plants to ensure that every Venezuelan family has
access to running and drinking water.
plants or sewage treatment for all elderly populations
500 thousand.
Incorporation of new sources or the regional system of Tachira, conclusion
Yacambú system and rehabilitation of Tuy IV, Chuparipal systems and
Turimiquire.
Works or supply of new networks north and south of Maracaibo, matrix
North.
Works in the Neverí or river, and completion of the new Bolivarian Aqueduct
feed line to the city of Coro and expanding feeders
Porlamar-Pampatar.
Amana Reservoir Works or for the supply of Maturin and Reservoir
Dos Bocas to Acarigua-Araure.
or supply of drinking water to the peninsula of La Guajira.
or rehabilitate the dam works as Pao-La Balsa, Cuira Reservoir, Reservoir
El Pilar, Caujarito, Tulé and Manuelote.
or control of the levels of Lake Valencia and transfer to the Tuy River basin.

or sanitation of Guaire (Caracas), Turbio (Lara) and Tuy (Miranda) rivers.
or Sanitation Lakes basin of Valencia and Maracaibo.
or adequacy and sanitation dumps San Josecito (Tachira)
Cambalache (Bolivar), The Guasima () and San Francisco (Zulia), with
implementation of treatment plants and recycling.
or landfill closure of Machiques (Zulia).
Industrialization or heavy materials.
or plan of reorganization and closure of illegal dumps.

• insurance for all Gas: increase the supply of gas to meet consumption
National and meet the requirements of the industrial sector.
or supporting the national gas companies sector companies in an environment services
of confidence.
or concrete terms and executing exploration programs offshore gas
(Gulf of Venezuela, Plataforma Deltana, Mariscal Sucre, Blanquilla and
Tortuga) and gas basins in the East and West of the country.
or accelerating infrastructure development in transport, storage and
terminals, necessary for the development of the industry.
o Develop a planned and coordinated infrastructure services
necessary to ensure the domestic gas transmission network.
o Improve the supply of domestic gas through cylinders, which currently
serves domestic gas consumption of 80% of households.

or Renew canisters National Park, facing difficulties as
containers without safety testing and obsolescence and bottles
ensuring the facilities so that they can easily be acquired by
people in their residential sites.
OUR COMMITMENTS ON ROAD
• Recovery of the main road network in the nation [motorways, trunk and
Local], which are about 32,000 kilometers, with an investment of Bs. F. 61,017
millions. With annual resources averaged Bs. F. 6.102 million in ten
years will be fully equipped.
• In the first 100 days in office, with an investment of Bs. F. 1,830
million will be made every minor patching, plugging all the holes
working together with the levels of government involved.
• all projects initiated, most of which are overdue end
and even just with the foundation stone, but giving priority to works
as the impact on the lives of Venezuelans.
MAJOR WORKS:
• Central Regional Highway: to rehabilitate 158 kilometers linking
Caracas and Valencia, with an investment of Bs. F. 316 million with an increase
25% of the work each year, affecting a minimum requirement mobility
and achieving immediate benefits:
Streamline immediately or connections to the valleys of Aragua and
Carabobo and Puerto Cabello-Moron axis.

o Promote tourism and national transport system by improving the flow
vehicle on the highway.
or avoid congestion and lowering levels of accidents.
o Reduction of transport costs for Venezuelans who mobilize
between the western, central and east.
Improvements or immediately access of the population to services
education, housing, health.
•

Lara-Zulia highway: to rehabilitate 293.57 kilometers Barquisimeto to
Maracaibo, with an investment of Bs. F. 587 million with an increase of 25%
of the work each year, affecting a minimum requirement and mobility
achieving immediate benefits:
or avoid congestion and accident levels down, that is the problem
most important of this pathway.
Reduction or travel time, transport costs, noise levels, the
greenhouse gas emissions.
o Improvements in the connection and integration of west-central axis and enhance the
tourism and cultural exchange.
o Reduction of transport costs for Venezuelans who mobilize
between the western, central and east.
or Immediate improvement of the population access to education, housing,
bless you.

•

Highway to East "Gran Mariscal de Ayacucho" to rehabilitate 106
kilometers, with an investment of Bs. F. 210 million with an increase of 25%

of the work each year, affecting a minimum requirement and mobility
achieving immediate benefits:
o Promote tourism and national transport system by improving the flow
vehicle on the highway.
o Improvements in the connection and integration of the East of the country, promote tourism
and cultural exchange.
o Strengthening Anzoategui Monagas Sucre-axis.
o Reduction of transport costs for Venezuelans who mobilize
between the western, central and east.
Repair or more than half of the bridges 48 to be Anzoátegui
be evaluated and replaced by more modern structures and broad, with
emphasis in key places like Bugles and Cúpira.
• Caracas-La Guaira highway: this route dating from 1840, paved
1910, it will rehabilitate 26 kilometers with an investment of Bs. F.
51 million with an advance of 25% of the work each year, affecting a
As low mobility and achieving immediate benefits:
Or have a quality alternative pathway to connect Caracas with La Guaira,
benefiting tourism and diversifying access to the port and the airport
International.
o Increasing the accessibility of locals to education, health
and transport quality.
o Reduction of transport costs and diversify transfer options.
or immediate opportunities for entrepreneurship.

o The increase in the quality of life of nearby communities.
•

Los Llanos route: this route is affected by gaps and failures edge
motivated

by

Landslides

unattended.

Will rehabilitate

the

434

kilometers with an investment of Bs. F. 860 million, with an increase of 25%
of the work each year, affecting a minimum requirement and mobility
achieving immediate benefits:
or Having an alternative pathway not only in the sense of emergency but as a
possibility of opening opportunities for entrepreneurship and progress along
all this broad way covering Caracas, center and east of the country.
or reduction of transportation costs.
Zoom or services to communities and strengthen the integration of the network
national road.
o Promotion of tourism throughout the country.
o Increased levels of road safety and reducing accidents.

NEW WORKS:
• Southern Ring Caracas: a way of 21.5 kilometers with a
investment of Bs. F. 4,300 million and an execution time of 4 years,
achieving:
o Access to the southeast of Caracas Metropolitan Area,
promoting urban development and expansion plans as
city.

or structuring of a new road network in the city.
Avoid traffic or passing through avenues such as the Francisco Fajardo highway or Av.
Boyaca [Cota Mil] heavy transport.
Haste in terrestrial or travel linking the west and east of the country,
avoid passing through urban streets of Caracas.
or decrease in transport costs, congestion and travel times of the
users.
•

Prolongation of Av. Boyacá [Cota Mil] from the Distributor to Baralt
Distributor Macayapa: work of 3.5 kilometers with an investment of Bs F..
700 million and a running time of two years, which will result in:
or access west of the capital from this road artery that runs through the north
Caracas.
o Strengthening the structured network of roads Metropolitan Area
Caracas.
Diversification or access from West to East Caracas.
or diversification of hits on La Guaira from eastern Caracas.
or congestion in north-south avenues of Caracas.

• Highway to East "Gran Mariscal de Ayacucho" construction of the
165 missing kilometers. This work was one of the promises more
recycled by the old ways of doing politics: we, with a
investment of Bs. F. 33.000 million and a running time of 7 years,
finish and logaremos:
o Integration of the Metropolitan Area of ​​Caracas with the east.

Integration or shaft-Anzoategui Monagas Sucre
or Connecting Anzoategui, Monagas and Sucre to the center
west.
or job creation, as estimated runtime allows
calculate seven kilometers per year versus labor, allowing several
allowing companies to build sections run up to 20 kilometers
annually.
•

Other works of the first approach:
or third bridge over the Orinoco River, Cabruta-Caicara del Orinoco.
or second bridge over Lake Maracaibo.
or road Barinas-Merida, would solve the common problems of
roads and communications in the area for environmental causes.

OUR COMMITMENTS ON PORTS AND AIRPORTS
• Our

net

from

ports

Y

airports

They need

be

modernized,

conditioners and converted into opportunities for Venezuelans: they are the
entry to our country and must be updated to enable them to make
quality service, and we deserve all Venezuelans and those who decide
come to know, investing and even live in Venezuela.
• assessment programs, repair and maintenance of our be articulated
ports and airports, linking the three levels of government. In addition to
build new facilities for Progress.

• Currently, in our ports it takes 49 days to export a container and 71 days
to import it. We will reduce those times to five times,
modernization and Venezuelan talent.

NEW WORKS:
• Alternate Puerto Carenero [Barlovento] tourist port whose first
Desk stage will be activating the ferry trips between Barlovento and
Margarita, and a second stage for cruises and tourism industry. The
investment in the first year will be $ 2.5 million for studies and
approach to the project, which will take place in two years
achieving immediate benefits:
or generating at least 200 direct jobs and 1,000 indirect
micro areas as maintenance, food, artisans,
entrepreneurs in the tourism and recreation, taxi drivers and public transport, including
others.
or A cost-effective connection between the coast and the state of Miranda New
Sparta.
or facilitate connection with Nueva Esparta to come from Caracas,
influencing the congestion in other areas and facilities, including
La Guaira and the Simon Bolivar International Airport.
or give the people of Barlovento a project with more than 15 years
waiting for and is capable of generating opportunities to strengthen and
diversify the economy of the families of the coast of Miranda.

o Activation of domestic tourism.
• Transformation Airport Palo Black: is the ideal project for
to support the Maiquetia International Airport, whose growth
It is limited. The investment is $ 3 million with a time of
execution of two years, with immediate benefits:
or have an alternative to Simon Bolivar International Airport, something
fundamental to both the development and economic growth of the country as
to be prepared to address potential situations.
o Generating more than 500 direct jobs and 2,000 indirect from
the start of operations.
or Decongesting Maiquetia Airport, both connections
international and domestic.
or An ideal choice for those who come to Venezuela with final destination in option
West Midwest, diversifying its connection options.
o Increased quality of life for families of Aragua state and development
potential significant investment in hospitality, cultural and infrastructure
service delivery.
• Merecure Airport: this airport, designed by AeroClub
Caracas is an example of working together with private investment,
having the state as a counselor. A work of this scope will:
or generating at least 100 direct jobs and 500 indirect, whether
technical and mechanical areas as the maintenance area, food,

artisans, entrepreneurs, tourism and recreation, transportation and taxi drivers
public, among others.
or have an alternative for air support that allows us to be
prepared to address potential situations.
or congestion in the hangars.
•

International Airport Barinas City: this work would give him
Venezuelans have all the advantages of a new airport
International in the southwest of the country, allowing:
o The development of the southwest of the country regardless of routes
air communication linked to Caracas.
or congestion in airports and diversification of the ways of
transported into and out of the country.
o The culmination of all the work needed to south and west
which has become one of the emblematic broken promises
Current government.

3. Building for Life: Infrastructure for the Advancement of all
Our government does take responsibility for the state as guarantor of
equal opportunities for all. The role of infrastructure in this
work is essential, so we make sure an environment with conditions
habitability best to meet the needs of every Venezuelan and provide
solutions to each community. Thanks to our comprehensive vision, we execute works
that will allow for better living conditions.

OUR COMMITMENTS
• 1,000 high schools: this plan provides solutions to issues like deficit
Venezuelan high schools with adolescents, investment in new
educational infrastructure, new public space and increased quality
life of Venezuelan families and in their sense of belonging. They
will build a thousand high schools in communities that need it most, of
according to population density and other human factors
will prevent teenagers away from their human networks and their
affections, reducing dropouts.
or an agreement which also includes the public and private sectors, plus
three levels of government, communities will be identified oriented
the choice of the land where the new high school be built to be
enabled the ground and from the outset the communities involved.
These new colleges or share with the community facilities
sporting and cultural space turning them into public service
community and providing families Venezuelan construction
it will always be at your service, in a sustained and enduring.
These 1,000 or colleges will allow our youth to form close to their
communities, helping and watching them progress, creating a link
strong with the educational community. This will allow them to grow closer
their families, with all the benefits that it generates.

•

HEALTH IN THE SERVICE OF THE COMMUNITIES: in the first 100 days
we will rehabilitate 82 health-care buildings around the country,
to ensure a range of coverage in terms of population 7
million citizens. This first phase will be concentrated on the set
almost surgical areas, delivery rooms, and emergency rooms
advanced life support.
or Each of these health-care buildings will become a
about organization of local health systems is coordinated by
the three levels of government.
o The development of these 82 health-care centers allow
national presence that avoids the "ruleteo" sick and immediate attention and
Guaranteed emergencies.
or activation of these buildings may carry out recovery
hospital infrastructure based on direct impact on the lives of
Venezuelans, paying attention to the needs to achieve
solutions.

• PUBLIC SPACE: thanks to the guarantee and security services
we have in our government, coordinated works are generated by
the three levels of government to the quality of life of Venezuelans
is expressed in each of the spaces of life, in this case through the
construction and equipping of:
or parks and squares, lighting and security guarantee, permit an
increase in the quality of life of Venezuelans, added to that is possible

share in community, increasing trust, promoting the meeting and
the recognition of others.
or vertical Gyms and cultural centers in each community, with warranty
security for all, it will allow all Venezuelans can
develop their talents.
or sports fields, sports centers and cultural infrastructure, which allows
expression of the talents of the community and at the same time, the exchange
knowledge and experiences through event scheduling
special.
4. Living Better: Having a home is much more than a roof
All Venezuelan families have access to public services and health.
In addition, the community where the family makes your life should provide opportunities
education, training and employment, and a transport system
roads that connect with the rest of the country. Everything described, I joined there
conditions for its inhabitants to progress without leaving the place
It has its human networks and their affection is what makes a home and
community are of quality.

OUR COMMITMENTS
• HOUSING QUALITY: every house is a case that must be addressed
respecting the specificities of each household. We achieve that
all Venezuelan families have adequate housing, water

Drinking supplied by pipeline, sustained service light, without risk
sliding and flooding and channeled wastewater.
o Ensure families are in shelters and those who are on the lists
GMVV programs as priority in the acquisition of
homeownership. But we will consider the places of origin of each
family, to affect as little as possible human networks and their affections, and
delivering land titles to those who have benefited from
housing programs for home belonging to them and there is no blackmail
political.
or joint programs to improve existing housing. A
first resolution established the granting of subsidies for delivery
Certificate of supplies will benefit 70,000 families
[350,000 Venezuelans] through practical, efficient procedures,
transparent and reliable.
o Identify the best equipped sites for urban expansion and enable those
soil to promote the construction of new housing projects
optimal living conditions. This will result in building
100 000 new sites with services to help close the shelters and
back to the cities.
or microcredit loans and mortgage will be awarded for acquisition
new housing, built-up plots and progressive construction of new
homes that will allow many Venezuelans, especially our
young people have a chance to start their life projects.

or Condition the areas where housing projects have risen to
provide ideal living conditions, which currently have
as utilities, health, education, employment sources.
•

PUBLIC SERVICES FOR ALL EQUAL. The infrastructure will
in the service of all families in the country, ensuring that
homes have the best living conditions and that each
community are the conditions for progress.
o Thanks to a schedule that will give priority to works that have
immediate impact on the lives of Venezuelans, we will modernize,
expand and maintain the distribution networks that yield service
sustained electricity, potable water supplied by pipeline, domestic gas
safely channeled wastewater without risk of landslides or
floods.
or will incorporate neighborhoods to urban life, from projects
existing and new proposals that will enable immediate action in 60
stable areas of the country since the first day in office.
o Each community will have a clean environment, guaranteed by the work
team among the three levels of government. We will initiate modern formulas
collection and classification of waste, sanitary water pipe
black bound in new treatment plants and treatment
appropriated waste representing a risk, such as
originate from industrial and medical-clinical.

or All communities have accessibility to roads in
good condition, able to connect families directly with their
communities. In complement, we will have systems that ensure
comfortable, efficient, safe and consistent public transport needs
every community, especially our agricultural regions where roads and
the mobility of its inhabitants deserve huge improvements.
o The maintenance and construction of public space, infrastructure
pedestrian, street furniture and parking will actually coordinated
between the three levels of government that will make our towns and cities
Progress places with measures from the first day in office
will positively transform the lives of Venezuelan families.
• Quality of life for Venezuelans. No family will be
isolated: housing of each family will have assured Venezuela
interconnection with the places where each of its members can
access to the places where they operate, but also
with the rest of the country and all the elements that guarantee quality
life.
or recovery of the main road network in the nation [motorways, trunk and
local] totaling about 32,000 kilometers of roads. This is a
total investment of Bs.F. 61.017 billion. Planning programmed to ten
years, averaging an annual investment of 6.102 million bolivars,
will ensure the security and networking that deserve the
Venezuelans. The priorities will be the section of the Caracas-Barcelona

Highway to the East, the Lara-Zulia highway, the route San Cristobal-La Fria, the
Kempis-City connection Losada, the final leg of the Av. Boyacá [Cota Mil]
in addition to the recovery of the Central Regional Highway, Highway
West Center and the stabilization of the Caracas-La

Guaira.

Reduce accident levels by 50% by 2014.
or we will renew public transport fleets to create new jobs
and assure its users quality service. Additionally, we recover
existing and terminals begin to build new
decentralize traffic at various points in the city, offering options
Disabled Venezuelans to diversify ways of reaching a
same fate.
o We are committed to building and expanding transportation systems
Subway of Maracaibo and Valencia, the Buscaracas, the Trolley
Barquisimeto, expanding Trolleybus Merida and compliance
Caracas Metro project, with responsible planning
comply with the times and provide new access roads to communities
who need it most.
or Build, expand and interconnect rail projects effectively
unfulfilled, such as railways Caracas Guarenas-Guatire, Central La
Crossroads, Maracay, Valencia and Puerto Cabello and the railway section Tuy
Middle-La Encrucijada.
o Improve and diversify our access roads to ports and airports,
to enable effective traffic into and out of the country. The

diversification priorities are roads Caracas-La Guaira, CaracasValencia, Valencia-Maracay, Maracay and La Victoria realization of the project
South bypass in Caracas.

A national long-term plan and a political alliance for
implementation (2013-2019)

I.

INITIAL CONSIDERATIONS

The parties gathered in the Democratic Unity Roundtable (MUD), determined to
contribute to economic, political, social and cultural renaissance of the Venezuelan nation,
we have agreed to form a political alliance capable of supporting a project
national long term.

We view this project as a necessary response to the challenge of transforming our
society to make it evolve from dependence annuitant has characterized
for more than a century to the productive effort with social equity as its
fundamental organizing principle.

The growth of our economy based on oil revenues served us, certainly,
to leave behind society

cottage we lived in the early twentieth century

advance, and it was partly to a modern urban society in which a
important part of the population reached a better life. Nevertheless,
that growth had various distortions and economic infeasibility was already
notorious for years. However, resistance to change that is difficult
adopt the necessary changes, consequently resulting problems

economic instability, social exclusion and political unrest that marked the end
Venezuelan twentieth century.

Faced with growing social pressures occurred a new political elite embarked
our society into a so-called "transition to socialism of the century" in response
our difficulties. The underlying problems of our people were not
Fixed and, conversely, old problems and new made fanned
appearance: the decline of the national economy, the caudillo personalism,
exponential growth of inefficient management of the state, decomposition
institutions, political discrimination, the division between Venezuelans.

Today we live in difficult times, but it is our belief that, from the perspective of
Long-term, our republican history is a long march to freedom,
democracy and social justice. After decades of crisis and disorientation, she was born
hope in our ability to build us a road to prosperity,
in peace, freedom and solidarity. It is up to those who aspire to lead this
Venezuelan step towards a productive and post-rentier society greatness
moral and policy that allows us to live in the times to come.

The articulation of a national project of long-term and lasting political alliance -
what we could call, itself, a political agenda - is, in short, the formula
that we plan responsibly and realize that this document
We sketched in broad outline for 2013-2019.

II. NATIONAL LONG-TERM PLAN

We firmly believe that we can be a prosperous, just, free and safe society.
We have the human, natural, material and financial resources to achieve. He
world opens up opportunities that could exploit properly. What
we require is a common project, realistic and ambitious at the same time, which
we can engage in a sustained manner over the coming decades.

The organizations that make up the MUD understand that the key to the
Venezuela is living and progress in an area recognized by everyone and ties
affective that allow us to integration and community spirit. Hence,
We argue that national unity is a central goal of our aspirations.

We are committed, therefore, to take all necessary steps to provide
Venezuelans of a Government of National Unity in which there is no predominance
of either dominant

organizations we represent, and that is

characterized by the recognition of all Venezuelans, without exclusion and
separation.

We ratify the program guidelines submitted to the consideration of the
Venezuelans January 23, 2012 and the collective effort of the plans submitted
in the presidential campaign of 2012, which constitute guide our action.

Based on these we will:

•

Reconciling the country and rescue democratic institutions.

•

Putting the public power in the service of Good Governance for the People

•

Build a productive society and progress

•

Depth combat poverty and exclusion to achieve quality of life
for all Venezuelans

•

Develop a broad and diverse foreign policy to promote confidence,
respect and prosperity in the world

Reconciling the country's democratic institutions and rescue
The strengthening of the democratic institutions of the country is one of the tasks
more complex and urgent that we undertake. It will be the scaffold on which
nods management efficient and honest government unmistakable character
democratic, national and popular. We will promote a government of National Unity, to
building democracy and social inclusion, aimed at resolving the problems
the people whose fundamental normative basis is the Constitution of the Republic
1999 Bolivariana de Venezuela.

We intend to install and activate the State Council, to promote political-institutional changes to vindicate the constitutional status and functions
Executive Vice President, as well as respecting the legislative function and control
National Assembly.
We will remove barriers to illegitimate political and social participation as
disqualifications contrary to the Constitution and to ensure the return of
exiles and the release of political prisoners.

We will promote the institutionalization of performance and relationship of the Armed Forces
National Bolivarian with Venezuelan society within the framework of Article 328 of the
Constitution.

We will promote the strengthening of the communal councils as instances of
plural participation, preferential relationship with the states and municipalities, as
laid down in Article 184 of the Constitution.
We will ensure full respect for human rights, respect for autonomy
and independence of the judiciary as a guarantor of democracy and defend the
professional character of the Armed Forces as an institution serving the
Nation and alien to partisan or personal interests.

Create and expedite and mechanisms for ongoing dialogue with all
sectors of society to promote the changes they desire and require
Venezuelans.

Putting the public power in the service of Good Governance for the People
We will work to achieve a public administration focused on people, to develop
and manage the budget transparency.
We will fight corruption at all levels. Respect and promote the
dignity, stability and training of civil servants.
In industrial relations in the public sector and the management of labor liabilities
We will promote consultation rather than confrontation and disqualification. We will
absolute defenders of collective bargaining and trade union freedom.
Decentralized Federal State develop the provisions of the provisions
fundamentals of our Constitution, marked by the principles of subsidiarity,
fiscal responsibility, transparency, and participation.
We establish the model for the management of services in states and
Municipalities with Community Councils and other instances of popular participation,
with a clear delineation of roles between levels of government.
We will ensure the legal, timely and efficient transfers and fiscal sustainability
of the states and municipalities.

Improve the process of participation of organized society in the control and
recovery of state and municipal governance and the rescue of character
elective parish boards as an additional instance of participation.

Build a productive society and progress
We will promote job creation and growth in productive activity. For
thus an environment of legal certainty and economic stability will be created, conducive to
investment.

We will fight inflation as a prerequisite for maintaining quality jobs and
to ensure the welfare of the people. We organize fiscal management and finance
public.

Pay back the autonomy of the Central Bank of Venezuela. Strengthen the
public and private financial system in the intermediation of credit. We will create the
Macroeconomic Stabilization Fund (FEM), strengthen the FONDEN and all
those funds that have character and social purpose.

We keep state ownership of the oil industry, and will take all
measures to raise efficiency levels. Optimize the
productive for the oil industry in Venezuela opportunities through
increasing the production capacity of crude oil in the country, the appropriate use

of natural gas reserves and the reconsideration of orimulsion.
Dismantle the barriers to the production, transport,
processing and importing food, feed, equipment, supplies and materials
raw, giving priority to the Venezuelans and the interests of consumers and
avoiding shortages.

Depth combat poverty and exclusion to achieve the quality of life for all
Venezuelan

We integrate large missions and missions within a coherent and coordinated plan
with a view to strengthening, development and improvement.

Implement a plan of integrated food and nutrition health improving
plans that have benefited many Venezuelans. We will give priority to
MCH, health-care and social protection programs and those of
education in nutrition, health and lifestyle, in addition to the school health program
anthropometric including surveillance and immunizations. We will support the production
national food in line with the needs of the population and the
basis of updated nutritional goals of the country and international standards.

We act firmly to prevent invasions, cattle rustling, kidnapping, theft
equipment, and to ensure security for the transport of food and
supplies.
Significantly improve rural roads. We will create a national network of support
technology and training, and the development of a delivery system
certified seeds, vaccines, supplies, equipment and adequate machinery.

We will ensure the right of ownership with strict adherence to the terms
established in the Constitution. We begin building consensus with all
stakeholders.

Strengthen genuine cooperatives and other forms of association related to
production and trade. We update the structure of the state and laws
related to the Social Economy and Cooperatives to assess and enhance the
"Social capital" developed in communities.
We will stimulate the growth of tourism in general. We will promote
private investment, the development of the quality of care and the image of Venezuela with
internationally.
Territorial Rural Development will strengthen and support the peasant sector
promote the participation of the rural population in the political process and in decision-
local decisions, and remove social barriers that result from differences
gender, ethnicity, race and social status.
We will constitute a modern system of science, technology and innovation as a means
for

to develop

processes

from

investigation,

production

Y

transfer

from

knowledge, aimed at building a scientific and technological culture in the
society and the creation of wealth for all Venezuelans.

Expand the social protection system and Employment (SPSE) incorporating a
integrated set of responses to improve the capacities of families
to escape poverty.

Sign an Agreement on Education with all sectors of the country.
Elaborate draft laws that are pending and regulations, such
as the Basic Education Act, the Teaching Profession Act, the Education Act
Superior and the Law on Financing of Education.

We will prioritize the subsidized official and private education, to serve populations
vulnerable. Preschool enrollment will increase up to 100%
coverage of children of 4-6 years. We will promote and will redirect the program
the Day Care Centers and Simoncitos and guarantee access to
technology and information systems with adequate provision of equipment and
formation.

We will set the goal "Repetition 0" in the first degree and appoint the best teacher for that
level. Select directors to be promoters of quality improvements
education and social justice in the public schools. Incorporate parents and
representatives control the days and times of classes and responsibility
take the children to school on time. We will promote the domain
the basic areas (language and mathematics) and the integration of science and technology
everyday activities.

In secondary education, we will set the goal of "no subject without a teacher" and to that end,
temporarily allow non-teaching professionals such as engineers, physicists,
biologists, will become teachers to cover the materials with critical shortages
specialized teachers, while promoting the completion of the component
teacher needed for educational work. Note that always exist
Venezuelan priority to teacher training. Avoid repetition and dropout,
mainly in 1st year of Secondary Education.

Will increase by 30% the

Registration of Technical Education, improving the quality of training.

Strengthen institutions of higher education. Develop in all its
extension Article 109 of the Constitution. It will coordinate with the Sucre and Ribas Mission,
to improve quality and avoid saturation of graduates careers at the expense of
short-cycle technical level. To strengthen Fundayacucho.
Improve the pay and working conditions for all, within the framework of
National Education Agreement.

Improve the National Public Health System and strengthen the leading role
Ministry. We will ensure the resources to cover insurance FUNDING
wide public health and universal coverage.
We will articulate properly the entire network of health institutions that have
functions of financing and service provision. Improve wages

of all health professionals. Expand the supply of postgraduates
national health, adapting to the needs of our people.
We will ensure the quality, safety and efficacy of medicines.
Diligently assume the topic of Social Security will designate a commission
Presidential Reform Social Security representative of all
sectors involved in the field to assess the situation without changing rights
acquired.

The National Unity will head the fight against violence and the phenomenon
criminal. A "National Public Safety System" will be created. Implement
policies to achieve disarmament and preventive police and well equipped
trained, well paid more effective, depoliticized and professionalized.
Through campaigns strengthen the culture of peace, harmony, nonviolence
and family and civic values.

We develop strong policies to prevent and control the sale and consumption
illicit drugs, alcohol and snuff in schools and colleges. Strengthen justice
peace and alternative methods of conflict resolution.

We will create the jobs needed in all security agencies
citizens with salaries commensurate with their risky work.

Will favor the conditions so that it has more prosecutors, professionals and
outside the policy, admission to the race through competition.

We will guarantee the principle of separation of powers and autonomy in power
Judicial. Decentralize the penitentiary system in accordance with Article 272
constitutional. Designate the address criminal to prison staff
professionals with academic credentials.

We will promote the culture of peace, solidarity, prosperity and employment,
developed transversely in a climate of dialogue and respect for diversity. We assume
the harmonious relationship between culture, communication, democratic coexistence and creation
citizenship. We will promote the National System for the Arts and Culture
cultural activities without censorship or due obedience.
We take the sport to all, strengthening decentralization and federated sport.
We will encourage the support and sponsorship of sport. We will seek greater efficiency and
specialization in sports management government. The guiding principle will be the
social inclusion and emphasis will aim to balance the momentum of mass
Sports and attention to highly competitive sport.
We establish an integrated territorial and urban planning system. Will prevent
invasions, seizures and appropriations of companies compulsive, land and
buildings, regardless of constitutional guarantees, guaranteeing the
right to work, to own property and adequate housing. We will promote the offer of a

important market for home ownership and rental. Pursue the
promulgation of a law on urban land. And design a practical system
efficient transfer of urban rights as a tool to ensure
built heritage conservation. We activate a restoration program,
expansion and maintenance of educational buildings, medical care, and
service and other public buildings. Begin expanding sector
materials, components and construction technologies.
Professionalization of the electricity sector will be encouraged and establish the
State policy planning and placing the user as the key factor
for its development. Decentralize and give electrical service regionalizaremos
priority to quality at low cost, as well as

We will promote sustainability

economic and financial. Improve the capacity of systems and expand the
offer.

Reinforce

Profesionalizaremos

he

the

processes

service

Y

from

decentralization

despolitizaremos

the

of

service.

decisions

techniques.

Basins protect our water sources.

Our development model is at the center of his life keeping purposes
perfect balance with nature. This will be a transverse axis which advocates a
sustainable model that respects the environment, preserving water reserves and
oxygen and biodiversity.

We assume environmental policy based on the precepts of the Constitution.
We will promote a national program of environmental education at all levels and
areas of society. We will strengthen environmental planning processes and
land use planning, based on sustainability criteria. We will promote the
policies and urban environmental management and management

Y

use of water as irreplaceable, and waste management and
solid waste.
Decentralize the management and administration of roads and highways; and the
creation of the National Roads Institute and the National Council of Transport.
We will design and execute a program of major works as well as the
impulse of air and sea transport.
We will promote the opening of telecommunications so that they are serving the
democratic values. We establish a democratic legal certainty, so
that the contents of the media (TV, Radio, Internet, Social Networks) will not be
regulated based on the sole discretion of the authorities. We will encourage
the development of the National System of Public Media and alternative media.
We will develop a Digital Agenda that contemplates a National Broadband Plan,
a National Digital Literacy Plan and Plan of Electronic Government.
Liderizaremos the advancement of the sector towards the web 2.0. We will encourage participation
social organizations in planning the development of services.
We will promote anti-discrimination policies and social cohesion based on
equality. Gender equity is a guiding principle of public action.

We assume, within the framework of the promotion of human dignity, respect for the
sexual diversity.

Develop a broad and diverse foreign policy to promote confidence, respect and
prosperity in the world
Develop a foreign policy independent, sovereign, with ideological breadth,
aimed at promoting the national interest and the recovery of the presence and
responsibility

international

from

Venezuela,

with

priority

in

he

space

Latin American and Caribbean. We will support strongly professionalizing
diplomatic, and organize

a consular service that meets the

Venezuelans with respect to its people, efficiency and diligence. We will promote
implementing a program of return migration policy.

We ratify our active participation in all the mechanisms of integration
Venezuela belonging and respect for the agreements signed in all
materials, especially those dedicated to the defense of Human Rights.

In all Venezuelans

In this time of special significance, the Democratic Unity Roundtable (MUD)
reiterates its unwavering willingness to serve Venezuelans. We commit
develop all necessary arrangements so that all Venezuelans
they can live in peace and progress.

Caracas, March 11, 2013
