Foreword Homeland Program
2013-2019
H

I

an exactly nine months after that beautiful day,
from that beautiful day, since that memorable June 11, 2012
in which our Supreme Commander Hugo Chavez inscribed his candidacy, the candidacy of the country, before the National Electoral Council
the elections of October 7, 2012. Today we have to register the candidacy
Revolution to elections April 14, 2013 to choose to the President's term ends his physical disappearance it
finish prevented the brother Commander, Commander friend.
I come today to the people of Bolivar and Chavez, to register this candidacy to defend the achievements conquered in 14 years of Bolivarian Revolution and ratify the political testament of our commander: Agenda
Homeland 2013-2019.
On this day I do not do anything to fulfill the mission entrusted me Commander President Hugo Chavez Frias as I have been
serving as will perform for the love of his person and his work.
I want to pay today, once again, the most heartfelt tribute to our Father Chavez, the Liberator of the century, with all the pride and all the
feel committed to their loyal and faithful follower heir. And I'll do
paraphrasing the words uttered on August 21, 1991 in memory of his big brother and companion, the martyr Commander Felipe Acosta
Carles, upon receiving the battalion of paratroopers with Antonio Nicolás Briceño
be up in arms that glorious February 4, 1992:

There is an undefeated champion at the forefront an indomitable fighter A
Commander of Commanders, each and all recognize each and every
Now we can hear his voice of command: he is here with us and in us;
Here he is with his huge heart, with the irresistible power of his love.
In your name, Commander Hugo Chavez, I comandaré this battle
towards the popular victory of April 14, 2013, and heading to new
victories of our Bolivarian Revolution. I pray to Almighty God,
Liberator Simon Bolivar and the people that help me to be worthy of you and
your great example of perseverance and consistency; help me give
continue the road towards the definitive independence of Venezuela you
opened; help me govern loyally obeying our beloved
people like you you taught us; help me meet, near the village of
Bolivar Homeland Program 2013-2019 that you gave us a legacy
and testament.

II
At each stage of his luminous life of struggle, Commander
Chavez always started with a project. Its fertile legacy in the field of
the ideas expressed through a historical cumulative projects
first he expressed in those documents still remain
must-see for us: The Blue Book and the Bolivarian Alternative Agenda, projected into the future horizon in the National Project Simon
Bolivar. First Socialist Plan of Economic and Social Development of the Nation
2007-2013, a draft long-range and long-winded.
Already in the Blue Book, Commander fixed a timing for the transformation of the country: National Simon Bolivar Project proposes setting a maximum time horizon of twenty years from the start
the transforming actions of the initial situation, so that the actors and
actions are located in strategic objective. Today the actors and actions
have been located in the strategic goal is simply to complete the
4

Definitive independence of Venezuela and consolidate the Bolivarian Patria and
Socialist. With endearing and lasting presence of our Commander,
with its spirit of love and struggle, we must give perpetual and deepening
the Revolution that under his leadership, we have forged in these fourteen.
Let's strict compliance Homeland Programme 2013-2019 to actively honor their lives, loud and clear memory.

lll
Let us remember, immediate memory, compatriot who read me.
The campaign culminated in the election of October 7,
2012 was a process of confrontation of ideas and models for the country. The candidacy of the country made the campaign a mammoth task Carabobo
explanation, discussion and enrichment of their national project in each
corner of Venezuela. By contrast, the applicant's right shunned the
confrontation of ideas, democratic political dispute, preferring to go disjointed presenting a list of promises, not anchored in any model
recognized without any structure. Intended and win popular support, go do scam, hiding their true national project: a neoliberal, submissive and socially regressive project. Again, right
He misread the national situation because it ignores the political culture that has been
consolidating between us in the process of building democracy
participatory and protagonist: the Venezuelan people has 14 years of education
policy and permanent exercise of analysis, discussion and criticism. Our people can discern politically, it feels and knows and People Power
It can no longer be deceived.
That's why the program of the country, raised by our Commander President Hugo Chavez won wide approval
majority: in elections with historical participation of 80.48% of
electorate, the people ratified with 55.07% of the vote, Chavez in Miraflores and became the program of the Fatherland in the roadmap of the Venezuelan road
socialism.
5

IV
Commander Chavez said that bright June 11, 2012 before the
people assembled in the Place Diego Ibarra de Caracas, referring to the program of the Fatherland:
This is for us the greatest importance, and I have personally been at the forefront of work, studying, reviewing, drafting the agenda of the country, a program that is not definitive.
It went well with your counselor verb:
... I ask all leaders of political parties, social movements, popular movements, now the people, the popular assemblies; Now we will begin to discuss this proposal, since
today until the end of the year, through October 7, November, December, to take earlier this year; I aspire ready ... when
is it the swearing? The January 10, 2013, with the help of God
and the will of the majority of Venezuelans, I must go
juramentarme back to the National Assembly as President of
the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela.
I aspire - óigaseme well - those who are in charge of this task,
and now all the people to debate it, I aspire that day delivered
to the National Assembly the full program of government, which would be the
II Socialist Plan of the Nation 2013-2019, so that the Assembly debated and become the Republic Act as mandated by the Constitution
Bolivariana.
In light of his words, the Homeland 2013-2019 Program is the ultimate political will that bequeaths our Commander: five great historical objectives are a magnificent synthesis of maturity
6

his revolutionary thinking. There are five major historical tasks ahead
to cross the barrier of no return, doing irreversible Venezuelan road to socialism. It is a system of values ​​and principles, inspired
teachings of Christ, in the wisdom of our native traditions,
the thought of Simon Bolivar.
We have the historic task of defending, consolidating and expanding the National Independence: the most precious, as Bolivar said, that will allow us to obtain all other goods. We have the historic task
to continue building our Bolivarian, diverse, democratic, nuestroamericano socialism, which is not a carbon copy but a heroic creation to
Mariátegui say. We have the historic task of turning Venezuela into
one country power within the great rising power that is our America
Latin-Caribbean. We have the historic task of contributing to the construction
the balance of the universe envisioned by the Liberator, ensuring peace
Planetary. We have the historic task of contributing to the preservation of the
life on earth and the salvation of the human race, and this means stop
the juggernaut of destruction of the capitalist model.
Our people have discussed wide, extensive and deeply these five great historical goals and has made all its own. We
with a program that expresses the will of the majority, as was clearly demonstrated by the October 7, 2012; As reaffirm 14
April 2013 to celebrate the eleventh anniversary of the return of our
Commander, after the civilian-military deed of April 13, 2002, the
April Revolution that restored the full force of the Constitution of the
Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela.
At this point, I refer to an extremely sensitive issue in the everyday national life: public safety. In reality,
indeed, public safety is a central objective for our people
and priority commitment for the government and the Bolivarian candidacy. We are determined to overcome to guarantee the life and tranquility of the village
7

Venezuela, fighting symptoms while eradicating
causes of insecurity. We are determined to end the violence and
culture of violence, social breakdown and false values ​​promoted by the real power of private media for
too many years. We are determined to ensure, in this terrain,
good life, living family living in Venezuela.
Let us always remember that Commander Chavez announced from the
Balcony of the People on October 7, after learning of the victory of the candidate of the country, starting a new cycle of the Bolivarian Revolution
October 8 thereof. A new cycle has its key bases in the
five great historical objectives of the Homeland.
Let us keep in mind that Commune or nothing! It was the last major
Let's currency policy in the Chavez Cabinet memorable
of October 20, 2012 to guide the revolutionary praxis: the greater
and the fullest realization of constituent and instituting Popular Power. Here was a historic challenge which we must respond and, for this, we
required to obtain a wide and forceful victory on April 14, 2013.
The we make it!
The December 6, 1998, the power did not change hands just in
function here a new ruling class was erected. We are not here
daughters and sons of Chavez to take the place of the oppressor, the operator:
we are here, yes, to spray the logic of oppression and exploitation.

V
Homeland Programme 2013-2019 and won popular support when
Peaked Commander: we are absolutely sure that you will get even
more popular now that we're back with the millions enarbolándolo
of men and women in whom Chavez has increased.
The April 14, 2013, eleven years after that glorious day of resurrection,
Program ratify the Fatherland with the most perfect of victories
8

Bolivarian. This will be our most beautiful tribute to our Commander
President Hugo Chavez Frias.
I want to conclude with a few words of the Liberator that many times you
hear our Commander: We must succeed on the path of revolution,
and not another. We, with Bolivar and Chavez triumph by
the road of revolution, will win on the road of socialism.

They failed you, my Commander,
and will not be with us, your daughters and your sons!

All and all we Chavez!

You still unbeaten! We follow and stay together!

Long live Chavez!

Presentation

OR

nce again the circumstances placed me before the people to express the strong and renewed commitment to defense of national independence commitment. This is the time, as never before was, of giving face
and meaning to the Socialist Motherland for which we are fighting. This program
Government for the period 2013-2019 responds to the achievement of these
supreme objectives:
Independence and Socialist Homeland !!!
As our Liberator said in 1820: it Is imperturbable our resolution of independence or nothing. Definitive independence or nothing should be
Forex and Bolivarian Bolivarian today. Independence is final
our cause and our ongoing task.
Independence understood from now, from here, forcing us to
look to the past to find the right course for the future. It is by
why the reactionary thesis of Empire and the stateless bourgeoisie against
Homeland us and we will oppose the combative, creative and liberating thesis of Independence and Socialism as an open project and dialectic
Construction: Independence is not over and the forge in our
daily and permanent struggle.

We have to fully realize the libertarian dream that has never stopped
throbbing in the country and is now beating incessantly. I think so
from the militant faith and love that encourages me reason: the heroic heritage
It obliges us and such a requirement is flag and commitment to us and us.
From the time we live must honor the challenges; many
Sacrifices can not be in vain, they make flesh and blood of the new life
You must remain the horizon that calls us and challenges.

II
This is a program of transition to socialism and radicalization of participatory democracy. We start from the principle that accelerate
necessarily involves the transition, despite the redundancy, speed up the process of devolution of power to the people. The live full and effective exercise of
leading people power is irreplaceable condition of possibility for the
Bolivarian socialism of the XXI century. For that matter, it is the foundation
and the main summit of the Simon Bolivar National Project. First Socialist Plan of Economic and Social Development of the Nation 2007-2013: our menu
Navigation in this cycle that is culminating, strongly emphasizes its
strategic role. Strategic role in the next cycle should be emphasized
even more.
We do not call to deception: the socioeconomic formation still
Venezuela is prevailing capitalist and rentier nature. Certainly,
Socialism has just begun to implement its own internal dynamism
among us. This is a program just to establish it and deepen it; directed towards a radical suppression of the logic of capital
compliance must go step by step, but without slowing the pace of progress towards
socialism.
To move towards socialism, we need a popular power capable
to dismantle the frames of oppression, exploitation and domination that exist in Venezuelan society, able to set a new sociality
eleven

from everyday life where fraternity and solidarity run couples
with the continued emergence of new ways of planning and producing the
material life of our people. This involves completely pulverize
so bourgeois state we inherited, which still plays through
its old and harmful practices, and give continuity to the invention of new
forms of political management.
Now, what is our American and global context in which
we are giving life to a socialist alternative model? It is clear that our America lives an epochal change that started, and I recognize justice,
with the coming to power of the Bolivarian Revolution: a new era
It characterized by a real and genuine change of power relations
in favor of the majority. It is clear, too, that the world system
capitalism is going through a structural crisis can become terminal: a crisis which, by its catastrophic magnitude forces us politically,
as Martí would say, to clarify and provide every day, as indeed we have been
doing to minimize its impact on Venezuela. But there is a sign
I want to emphasize encouraging: he has begun to lay their bases a system
multipolar international which faces the great principle that Bolivar
call the balance of the universe.

12

III
In presenting this program, I do so with the conviction that only
with the active participation of the people, with their wider discussion
grassroots, we can improve it, unleashing all its power
creative and liberating.
This is a program that seeks to go beyond "the barrier of no return." For
explain to Antonio Gramsci, the old must die definitely finish, for the birth of the new is revealed in all its fullness.
The consistency of this government program responds to a line
quite decisive force: we are required to pass the barrier
no return, to make irreversible the transition to socialism. Certainly
it is difficult to say when break forth as grand horizon, but we must
deploy sensitive and well-directed efforts, to put it with Bolivar,
according to their advent.
Refundarnos, as stated in our Constitution, it is not a necessity
He supports delay, because without that vital foundation would lose the chance to conclude the historic and popular gesture above us and to which
we are ethically responsible. The consolidation of the V Republic
Bolivarian Socialist is the most beautiful and bright justification for more than two
centuries of struggle and sacrifice.
Our past, our whole past is alive and teaches us that we have
It has been, and remain, a result of adversity; but we
He notes that thanks to them we have what we collectively envision
it is urgent, and that this government program fully reflects:
Patria have definitely; win an independent and sovereign homeland for
our children and our children's children; Patria and perpetual
happy where we always wanted to live; Socialist Bolivarian Homeland
that mandate by inexorable fate, will succeed next October 7
2012, at the Battle of Carabobo of the century. Ecclesiastes says: "All
what will happen under the sun, it has its time. "
13

Build this country for you compatriot, man, woman, mother, father, young girl Venezuela Venezuelan child can live well and justly
and dignity is what animates my fight and is one of the main reasons
I have to live with my loved ones, my son, my daughters, my parents.
I propose we continue to fight, as I said our singer Ali Primera,
"The dawn of a new world," an independent socialist country where we can live living, inspired by the highest values
humanism. In it, I, thy soldier, my people and beloved, put all my
Venezuelan heart.
In Caracas, birthplace of the Liberator
Simon Bolivar, June 11, 2012.

Hugo Chavez
Independence and Socialist Homeland !!!
We will live and win!

14

Introduction

E

l document we presented today before the Electoral Power, but especially considering the painstaking and heroic Venezuelan people and
its militant youth, is a proposed electoral program continues
and explores some of the strategies already contained in the First
Socialist National Plan Simon Bolivar, and are in full swing
and execution.
We should note that the Second Socialist Plan for the period 20132019, is already under development. And it is updating the strategic letter that will guide us along the route of the transition to the Bolivarian socialism of the XXI century, includes five major historical objectives, namely:
I. D? efender, expand and consolidate the most precious thing we have recaptured after 200 years of National Independence.
II. C
? o continue building Bolivarian socialism of the XXI century,
Venezuela, as an alternative to destructive and savage capitalist system and thus ensure "the greatest sum of happiness possible,
greatest amount of social security and greater amount of political stability "
for our people.
III. C
? Venezuela onvert to power in a country in social, economic
and politics within the Great Rising Power of Latin America
16

and the Caribbean, to ensure the establishment of a peace zone in
Our America.
IV. C
? To contribute to the development of a new international geopolitics in
which take a multicenter body and multipolar world that allows
to balance the Universe and ensure global peace.
V. preserve life on the planet and save the human species.
The first great historic goal on the consolidation of our
Independence refers to a set of national objectives and strategic
in political, economic, social and cultural orders, mainly, the scope will allow us to lay the foundations of the irreversibility of sovereignty
national.
It addresses the need to ensure continuity of the revolutionary process, which involves achieving the strongest popular victory in the
presidential elections on October 7, 2012. For this, the unit
workers, small and medium producers of the countryside and the city, as well as other social sectors of the people,
prerequisite. It is also concerned about preserving sovereignty over
our overall natural oil resources in particular and. This, in turn, will translate into the ability to handle strengthened
sovereign national income. Achieving food sovereignty, triggering our agro-productive potential, it will be another
the strategic objectives.
Vital to the achievement of this first major objective is the full development of our scientific and technical, creating capabilities
conditions for the development of a
innovative and dynamic transformer model, oriented towards harnessing the potential and capaci17

national ties and the need to strengthen national identity and
nuestroamericana, based on the Bolivarian principle that "the country is
America. "
Finally, it included in this first major objective of strengthening
national defensive power, strengthening civil-military unit and increasing the operational readiness of the Bolivarian National Armed Force
the overall defense of the country.
On the second great historic goal, it prefigured in the forms
Construction of ours to reach the supreme social happiness of the people socialism, this happens, first, to accelerate system change
economic, transcending the oil rentier capitalist model to model
Socialist economic production, giving way to a more egalitarian society
and fair, towards socialism, based on the role of the Social and Democratic State of Law and Justice, in order to further advance the
satisfaction of the basic necessities of life of our people:
food, water, electricity, housing and habitat, transport
public health, education, public safety, access to culture,
free communication, science and technology, sports, recreation and healthy
to decent, liberated and liberating work.
This is related to the need to promote a new ethic, moral and spiritual hegemony that allows us to overcome the vices, still
do not stop dying, the old model of capitalist society. About,
Special mention deserves the express purpose of moving forward in developing a model of public safety for the protection of human life and ultimately address a revolution in the management system
justice, to end impunity, achieve equal access and
eradicate racist and classist in their application.
Finally, to achieve the second major objective is strategic unleash the power contained in the Bolivarian Constitution, making the final emergence of new social and democratic state of law and Jus18

tice through the consolidation and expansion of popular power through
Great Socialist missions and quests and self-government in towns and
specific territories formed as communes, among other policies.
The third great historic goal, turn Venezuela into a power country socially, economically and politically within the Great Rising Power
Latin America and the Caribbean, to ensure the creation of an area of
Peace in Our America, is geared towards the consolidation of political power,
economic and social for which it is required among other goals, the final
emergence of Democratic and Social State of Law and Justice, and the strengthening of stability and peace of the nation.
Further, this historic proposal includes the strategic objective of developing the national economic power, using optimally
potential offered our resources. It also intends to expand military might to defend the homeland, strengthening the industry
Venezuelan military, and deepening the new Bolivarian military doctrine and
national geopolitical development.
Which includes a commitment to continue to play a leading role in the construction process of Latin American and Caribbean unity, promoting the Bolivarian Alternative for the Peoples of Our America
(ALBA) and Petrocaribe, as well as streamlining new regional areas:
the Union of South American Nations (UNASUR) and the Community of
Latin American and Caribbean States (CELAC).
The fourth great historical goal involves continuing along the path in search of a multicenter multipolar world without domination
Imperial and with full respect for the self-determination of peoples. By
Finally, a need to continue joining efforts to dismantle the
neocolonial system of imperial domination, eliminating or reducing levels not vital economic and technological relations of our country with
imperial domination centers, among other purposes.
The fifth of the great historical objectives results in the need
to build an eco-socialist productive economic model, based on a
19

harmonious relationship between man and nature, to ensure the use and
rational and optimal use of natural resources, respecting
processes and cycles of nature.
In this regard, it is necessary to ratify the defense of state sovereignty
Venezuela on vital natural resources.
This fifth major historic task, calls to join efforts for the
promotion of a worldwide movement to curb nature and causes
reverse the effects of climate change occurring as a result of
predatory capitalist model.
This Government Program for National Independence and Socialism presented, is nothing more than a call for a broad debate
ideas and proposals within the Venezuelan people, which serves to prepare the II Socialist Plan of the Nation Simon Bolivar (2013-2019) and follow
forming the great historic, democratic and popular block comprising
workers and workers, peasants, students of African descent, indigenous peoples, academic and academic, small and medium producers
and producing the countryside and the city, traders, transporters, motorized, teachers, health professionals in general, servers
and public servants, women, military,
villagers, fishermen and women,
cultists and cultivators, athletes, leaders
community and union and in a special way by the Venezuelan youth.
To achieve this, we can say to our Father paraphrase Simon Bolivar, unity is essential to the work of our
regeneration.
Carabobo Campaign Command

20

Great historic goals

I defend, expand and consolidate the PRECIOUS ASSET
WE HAVE recaptured after 200 years: national independence.
"Fellow citizens! I blush to say: independence is
the only good that we bought at the expense of others. But
it opens the door to reconquer under your sovereign auspices, with all the splendor of the glory and the
freedom". Simon Bolivar, Bogota, January 1830.
Cycle takes the Bicentennial of our Independence. It is our full of the heroic legacy that belongs to us as a people and time
that our blood and soul. We are again in battle with
concretized and realized, within the Bolivarian revolutionary process in open struggle to end to recover and consolidate dreams
We had lost independence. We are inspired by the indigenous resistance,
Afro rebellion, independence movement, the Federal Revolution,
Restorative Revolution; They inspire us Guaicaipuro, Tamanaco, Terepaima,
Andresote, José Leonardo Chirino, Francisco de Miranda, Simon Rodriguez,
22

Antonio Jose de Sucre, Ezequiel Zamora, Cipriano Castro. And our maximum
inspiring, our main reference, is the Liberator Simon Bolivar.
Historically, profound changes in the agricultural export Venezuela clearly landowner and "feudal", the Venezuela oil company did not generate significant changes in the way of leading the destinies
of the Nation. Quite the contrary, deepened dependence detriment
peasants, laborers, workers and popular sectors. The alien domination, with a penetration of unprecedented capital with the arrival of "gold
black ", found the table served by submissive governments of all stripes.
In this context, Venezuela born exporting oil: an oil factory consumer subordinate to imperialism and warmongering model
Yankee; He was born a capitalist and repressive neocolonial regime that plunged the
noble and glorious people of Bolivar in the greatest material and moral misery.
Only the honorable and courageous resistance of the patriotic majority of the people
Venezuelan and honest leadership, expressed in the struggle against dictatorships of the twentieth century, civil and military rebellions of the sixties,
the combative mobilization of successive generations of young students and the great popular and military rebellions February 27
1989, February 4 and November 27, 1992, we were saved from total
destruction as a sovereign nation.
The December 6, 1998, the Bolivarian Revolution, based
the conscience and dignity of the people, initiated the breakdown of neocolonial hegemony. Thirteen years of Bolivarian Revolution, he has given us political independence.
Bolivarian Venezuela now has a sovereign government, unresponsive
to the dictates of the Empire or to any of the bourgeoisie. Today we have a
people who are deeply proud of their cultural and historical roots, and we are in the process of regaining control of our
natural resources and revenues.
That is why the first great historic goal, for the next period
Bolivarian and socialist government will defend and consolidate the good more
2. 3

precious thing we have: political independence; reaffirm our
nuestroamericana and national identity as well as further progress in the framework of a bold international geopolitics to our full independence
economic.
II. Continue building Bolivarian Socialism
THE CENTURY IN VENEZUELA AS ALTERNATIVE TO MODEL OF WILD CAPITALISM AND THEREFORE ENSURE "the greatest sum of happiness possible, the greatest amount of social security and greater amount of political stability"
For our people.
"We do not want, certainly, that socialism is in America
carbon copy. It must be a heroic creation. "
Jose Carlos Mariategui, 1928.
The crisis currently faced by so-called developed countries is
consequence of the imbalances and contradictions inherent to the system
capitalist. The voracity to accumulate more and more wealth is not only causing irreversible environmental destruction, but the multiplication of untold suffering and hardship for millions of people. Never before has humanity had suffered such appalling inequality.
Meanwhile, a few people and companies monopolize giant
created wealth through financial manipulation and speculation
excessive, at the expense of the misery of most of humanity.
Albert Einstein wrote in 1949: "I am convinced that there is only one way to eliminate these grave evils, the establishment of a
socialist economy, accompanied by an educational system oriented
social goals ".
The men and women who are building the Bolivarian Revolution, from the beginning we shared that conviction, announcing
24

we should make a different course, building on the experiences of
other countries but learning from their mistakes, starting from our own
assimilating the values ​​and teachings of the Father and of the great Liberator
our Latin thinkers.
In 2004, the Bolivarian Revolution proclaimed its anti-imperialist character and in 2006 was defined as socialist. The preaching of the Revolution
It has been continuous: we do not want to remain in the field of capitalism,
Venezuela embodies essential that socialism as wide and open road to the supreme social happiness. We fight for a society
where the great values ​​of Christianity are fully realized.
In the next period of the Bolivarian and socialist government continue
shaping a system of social relations of production supported by the
values ​​of learning and work; serving the satisfaction of human needs of our people: food, water, electricity, clothing,
housing and habitat, transport, health, education, culture, science and technology.
It is crucial for the development of social ownership of the
factors and basic means of production and strategic enabling all
families and citizens exercising Venezuelans
the full enjoyment of economic, social, political and cultural rights, making the live well.
We will then, in the next period to achieve the second great historical goal: to continue building and laying the foundations of Bolivarian socialism
XXI century to remove the inhuman, predatory and bellicose system
capitalist accumulation and transcend the logic of capital behind it.
III. CONVERT TO VENEZUELA IN POWER IN THE COUNTRY
Social, economic and political INSIDE THE GREAT
RISING POWER IN LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN TO
ENSURE THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A PEACE ZONE
OUR AMERICA.
25

The next decade, Venezuela as a country must consolidate power
regional and universal level. Venezuelans must feel,
effectively, that is a real and tangible fact participatory democracy; and, substantively, will remain the
power as a way to achieve the sovereignty of the country irreversibly.
The progress made by the Bolivarian process should underpin
to continue the consolidation of political power, seen as the consecration of the devolution of power to the people and the full exercise of participatory democracy as socialist protagonist and political support of the Unit
National. Only in this way we will have the strength to participate
success in the complex world stage.
To advance and strengthen participatory democracy, is
It requires strengthening the value of human life and its defense, from a plane
fundamentally ethical and solidarity which deprives the value of being above the capitalist value have to be consumed to exist. Shield
ethics in the exercise of power is paramount to constitute the
Moral strength of the nation.
The construction of the economic power of Venezuela as power
energy, food and industrial-looking, forcing consolidate progress in the development of the regulatory framework and investment policy
for sovereign national wealth at the service of life of our
people and building a world of justice and peace.
Similarly, the Office is required, the soldiers of the homeland with
support of all the people, continue to increase the strengthening of Might
Military Office, which is part of the vital task of comprehensive defense
our country.
In the next period of the Bolivarian Socialist government and achieve
the great objective of unleashing the full power of the homeland of Simon Bolivar, forming a democratic and popular historical bloc composed of
the working class and professional layers, as well as small and
medium producers in the country and the city.
26

IV. Help develop a new geopolitical
INTERNATIONAL BODY IN WHICH TAKE THE WORLD multicenter multipolar that would achieve the balance of the universe and ensure peace PLANETARY.
As mandated by the Liberator Simon Bolivar, foreign policy
of the Bolivarian Revolution will make every effort to "get the
system guarantees, in peace and war, is the shield of our new
destiny ", that is, an international environment that guarantees independence
Homeland for the full deployment of a sovereign national project.
Inspired by the vision of harmony that characterizes the cosmogony of our native indigenous peoples, and the Bolivarian conception that
international political action should aim to shape the "balance of the universe," the foreign policy of the Bolivarian Venezuela will boost the creation of a multipolar world whose ultimate goal is the preservation of peace
based on respect and sovereignty.
As we have expressed in various scenarios, such multipolar world
It will consist of a multiplicity of power poles, clusters
countries so that there is more universal balance, for more democracy
universal, so there is more equality in the world.
In the next period of the Bolivarian and socialist government, we will continue moving in this essential task to ensure peace in the world,
peace in Venezuela.
V. CONTRIBUTE TO THE PRESERVATION OF LIFE ON PLANET AND THE SALVATION OF THE HUMAN SPECIES.
At this historic moment, the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela, of
According to the ethical principles of socialism, rise the banner of a struggle necessary to adopt nationally and at the global level a
effort to change the model of predatory development that capitalism
he has imposed on the world in the last three centuries, by threatening
extension of the voracious market economy.
27

In this struggle, we all sensible and well directed efforts to
you have to do in terms of reversing the causes and effects of the devastating
environmental crises that threaten the possibility of human life
on planet Earth.
It will be necessary for immediate and mediate actions to
recover the balance of the Earth and underpin the productive economic processes of human beings, on the basis of respect for the earth and cycles
its regenerative processes, by establishing a relationship
other than human nature.
This new alternative model of socialist development requires a role
leading men and women with the new values ​​of fine living
support ecologically and socially sustainable economy. This is only possible from socialism as the only alternative to the predatory capitalist model that has already failed.
This new model will truly fulfill the mandate that emerged from the Earth Summit in 1992: to satisfy our needs
without putting at risk current or threaten the ability of meeting the
needs of future generations.
Our country fought in those sensitive issues in environmental matters
at all levels (national, regional and multilateral) with special emphasis
in the fight against climate change, transformation models
unsustainable production and consumption and the defense of a new model
social, ecological and socialist development, as the only global alternative
to ensure life.
In this context, it will be promoted in addition, within the
United Nations, the construction of the "New International Architecture Social Ethics" that, to define the new international agenda for Human Development and Sustainable Development.

28

Great historic goals
and national

I defend, expand and consolidate the PRECIOUS ASSET
WE HAVE recaptured after 200 years: national independence.
NATIONAL GOALS
eleven. G
? nsuring continuity and consolidation of the Bolivarian Revolution in power.
1.2. P
? reserve and consolidate sovereignty over oil resources and
other strategic natural resources.
1.3. Ensure the sovereign management of national income.
1.4. L
? chieve guarantee food sovereignty for the sacred right to
feeding our people.
fifteen. D
? evelop our scientific and technological capabilities linked to
the people's needs.
1.6. F
? Reinforce the defensive power for protecting national independence and national sovereignty, securing the resources and wealth of
our country for future generations.

30

II. Continue building Bolivarian Socialism
THE CENTURY, IN VENEZUELA AS ALTERNATIVE TO DESTRUCTIVE AND WILD SYSTEM OF CAPITALISM AND THEREFORE
ENSURE "the greatest sum of happiness possible, the biggest
SUM OF SOCIAL SECURITY AND POLITICAL STABILITY greatest amount of "our people.
NATIONAL GOALS
21. P
? ropulsar the transformation of economic system, depending on the
Bolivarian transition to socialism, transcending the rentier model
capitalist oil to the socialist productive economic model,
based on the development of the productive forces.
2.2. C
? constructing a just and egalitarian society.
2. 3. Consolidate and expand the people's power and socialist democracy.
2.4.? Convene and promote a new ethic, moral and spiritual guidance
of society, based on the liberating values ​​of socialism.
2.5. L
? chieve the final emergence of new social and democratic state,
Law and Justice.
III. CONVERT TO VENEZUELA IN POWER IN THE COUNTRY
Social, economic and political INSIDE THE GREAT
RISING POWER IN LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN TO
ENSURE THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A PEACE ZONE
OUR AMERICA.
NATIONAL GOALS
3.1. Strengthening the role of Venezuela as a world energy power.
3.2. D
? evelop the economic power of the nation based on the optimal use of the potential offered our resources
to generate the greatest happiness of our people as well
31

as the material basis for building our Bolivarian socialism.
3.3. Forming and expanding military power to defend the country.
3. 4. P
? rofundizar the development of new national and regional geopolitics,
Latin American and Caribbean.
IV. Help develop a new geopolitical
INTERNATIONAL BODY IN WHICH TAKE THE WORLD multicenter multipolar that would achieve the balance of the universe and ensure peace PLANETARY.
NATIONAL GOALS
4.1. C
? o continue to play a leading role in building
Latin American and Caribbean unity.
4.2. Strengthen national identity and nuestroamericana.
4.3. C
? o continue promoting the development of a multipolar world without imperial domination and respect for self-determination.
4.4. C
? To contribute to the removal of harmful anti-historical and imperial and neocolonial system.
V. CONTRIBUTE TO THE PRESERVATION OF LIFE ON PLANET AND THE SALVATION OF THE HUMAN SPECIES.
NATIONAL GOALS
5.1. C
? UILDING productive and boost eco-socialist economic model,
based on a harmonious relationship between man and nature,
to ensure rational use, optimal and sustainable utilization of natural resources, respecting the processes and cycles
nature.

32

5.2. P
? o protect and defend the permanent sovereignty of the State over
natural resources for the ultimate benefit of our people, which
It will be the main guarantor.
5.3. D
? Venezuelan efender and protect historical and cultural heritage and
nuestroamericano.
5.4. C
? To contribute to the formation of a large global movement to
contain the causes and repair the effects of climate change
occur as a result of predatory capitalist model.

33

Development of the major objectives
Historic

I defend, expand and consolidate the PRECIOUS ASSET
WE HAVE recaptured after 200 years: national independence.
NATIONAL GOAL:
eleven. ? Ensuring the continuity and consolidation of the Bolivarian Revolution in power.
STRATEGIC GOALS AND OBJECTIVES:
1.1.1. Achieving a strong, combative and festive victory in the presidential election October 7, 2012, to raise the morale of the Venezuelan people
and the world's peoples in their struggle for emancipation.
1.1.1.1. Consolidate the unity of the working class and professional layers, small and medium producers, the countryside and the city; as well as
of social movements and organizations that support the Revolution
Bolivariana.
1.1.2. Deploy all the political actions necessary to ensure
electoral process in a climate of stability and gain recognition of
peaceful sovereign will of our people.
3. 4

1.1.2.1. Summon all honest and democratic sectors of the country to contribute to the peaceful development of the electoral process.
1.1.3. Prepare to defend the will of the people, by organizing
popular and democratic exercise of state authority.
1.1.3.1. Strengthen and defend the public powers of the State.
1.1.3.2. Strengthen awareness and sectoral and territorial organization
our town.
1.1.3.3. Expand the organization of the people for comprehensive defense of the nation.
1.1.3.4. Enhance the capabilities of the security agencies of the State
to ensure political stability and peace of the nation.
1.1.4. Strengthening and expansion of Popular Power for the people to be
the power.
1.1.5. Preserve, restore and advance opportunities for regional government
Local, to deepen the devolution of power to the people.
1.1.6. Continue building the information hegemony, so that Venezuela all voices are heard.
NATIONAL GOAL:
1.2. P
? reserve and consolidate sovereignty over oil resources and
other strategic natural resources.
Sovereignty over natural resources is a concept that involves
guarantee its use for humanists and naturalists goals of socialism. So, we will have sovereignty to the extent that we have the freedom of his
operation, administration and use for this purpose. It is indivisible with politics.
STRATEGIC GOALS AND OBJECTIVES:
1.2.1. Maintain and ensure control by the State on Petroleum
of Venezuela, S.A.
1.2.2. Ensure the hegemony of the national oil production.
35

1.2.3. Securing a majority stake in joint ventures.
1.2.4. Maintain and ensure control by the state of the companies
State exploiting the mineral resources in the country.
1.2.4.1. Consolidate and strengthen a state enterprise for the exploitation of
mining resources.
1.2.5. The means to ensure effective control of related activities
and associated strategic industrial chain resource exploitation
hydrocarbons.
1.2.5.1. Strengthen the actions for the effective control of
Strategic related activities of the oil industry.
1.2.5.2. Consolidate effective control of the key activities of the chain
value of oil and gas.
1.2.5.3. Promote and encourage scientific research and technological development in order to secure the core operations of the industry
oil.
1.2.6. The means to ensure effective control of related activities
and associated strategic industrial chain resource exploitation
miners.
1.2.7. Strengthen the coordination of petroleum policies within OPEC.
1.2.7.1. Defender policies for the fair valuation of oil.
1.2.8. Achieve a coordination of pricing policies of gas.
1.2.8.1. Promote mechanisms for the fair valuation of gas.
1.2.9. Building capacity to influence the recovery of prices
minerals.
1.2.10. Raising the political and ideological consciousness of the people and the oil and mining workers, as well as their active participation in the
protection of natural resources of the Nation.
1.2.10.1. Deepening political and social content of the oil industry.
1.2.10.2. Boost employee participation in planning
the activities of the oil industry.
36

1.2.10.3. Consolidate and deepen political bodies of the people and oil workers and miners participation.
1.2.11. An initiative to encourage and promote coordination between countries
supertankers.
1.2.12. Defender of the Nation ownership of strategic resources
non-oil minerals, as well as the development of the capacities to use them in their processes of transformation and aggregation
national value to raw materials. It is assumed with special attention
conception of production chains beyond the mere exploitation of the deposits. The use of iron and bauxite, where
Venezuela occupies leading positions worldwide, other minerals are added with great potential for the highest national interests as
gold, coltan.
1.2.12.1. Ensure the use of natural resources of the country, in a sovereign manner, to satisfy internal demands and use function
of the highest national interests.
1.2.12.2. Optimize state fiscal mechanisms to ensure sovereignty in the management of the benefits derived from the heritage
Republic.
1.2.12.3. Develop foresight, comprehensive inventory on a platform
National technology and the appropriation of techniques for the efficient use of natural resources of the country according to their interests
sovereigns.
1.2.12.4. Book at the highest national interests through the state,
planning and management of forms of ownership in the sectors
strategic, to ensure the incorporation of these resources to the process
production for the satisfaction and democratic access to goods and services
by the population.

37

NATIONAL GOAL:
1.3. Ensure the sovereign management of national income.
The sovereign national income management involves the ability to grasp and use it in socialist, humanistic and naturalistic goals. He
State must be designed so that the administration of that income
National serves the objectives of leverage of the new society.
Given our condition as oil rentier country (which must be reversed through a policy of transformation towards a production model
Socialist), our national income is based on the development of the
oil activity. In this regard, to ensure the goal of a management
sovereign revenue, control of the oil industry is necessary, through a national, popular and revolutionary politics.
Politics has to be national, because it is the administration of
resources owned by all Venezuelans, forcing us
to manage them for the benefit of the entire nation. Through a
operation with national vision aims to achieve absolute control of the oil industry in the country, as required by the Constitution of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela, which, quite clearly, that is expressed
the State, representing the collective interest of all Venezuelans,
the owner of the resources found in our basement, and the
case in point, of hydrocarbon resources of oil and gas. Is
policy should integrate the country in defense of our wealth; is a
policy undoubtedly incumbent upon all Venezuelans, and should not
have differences over it.
Moreover, the management of the oil industry must be popular, because it has to be guided by the people's interests and should encourage
participation of the working class for maximum connection with the people. To develop we have to rest on the shoulders of the people.
The people have to be a major player in all its estates and not
38

only through the representation of the Venezuelan State, but
through their workers and communities.
Finally, our oil policy should be revolutionary, which has to do with who captures the oil revenue, how is collected and how it
distributed. No doubt should be the state that control and capture
oil revenues, based on mechanisms to maximize its value to
distribute it to benefit the people, ensuring comprehensive social development
the country, more just and equitable conditions. This is the element that we
Unlike any other oil policy.
To ensure a national, popular and revolutionary, then politics, we must put the oil income to serve the people. This means,
whoever captures and controls the oil revenue should be the rule. Also,
to maximize that income the state must seek a sovereign policy
including control over the resource base and its maximum valuation as a
essential to ensure a fair collection requirement. Then, it should be
ensure that oil revenues to projects, plans and programs to ensure comprehensive social development under the guidance intended
the Bolivarian and Revolutionary Government, in line with plans
Development of the Nation.
STRATEGIC GOALS AND OBJECTIVES:
1.3.1. Maintaining and strengthening the current tax system Oil.
Who he watched many positive changes to the existing in 1998.
1.3.2. Maintain and strengthen effective mechanisms for attracting income
surplus on extraordinary and exorbitant price increases
International hydrocarbons.
1.3.3. Establish and develop a mining tax regime and efficient uptake mechanisms for the collection of income from the activity
mining.
1.3.3.1. Regulate and control the production of strategic minerals.
39

1.3.3.2. Strengthen tax collection and control.
1.3.3.3. Reorder and establish royalty rates applicable to the liquidation
of different minerals.
1.3.3.4. Review and regularize specific royalty agreements for each
one of the strategic minerals.
1.3.4. Establish mechanisms of control over the marketing of strategic minerals.
1.3.4.1. Create state agencies for the marketing of strategic minerals.
1.3.4.2 establish transparent mechanisms for the recovery of the strategic minerals.
1.3.5. Strengthening and deepening of financial agreements with partners
strategic.
1.3.5.1. Maintaining and expanding the Joint Chinese-Venezuelan Fund. The bottom
Chinese-Venezuelan joint has resulted in an extraordinary mechanism
Funding for the Venezuelan State as a structure of bilateral cooperation, signed between the governments of the Bolivarian Republic of
Venezuela and China, whereby significant financial resources, which are then canceled by supplying received
of crude and products.
This tool has served the country to secure a new geopolitical, based on the diversification of markets. In turn, this mechanism allows the allocation of resources directed directly to the development of the country,
for the implementation of infrastructure projects of national interest, momentum
small and medium industry, and strengthening chains
production and support infrastructure for economic growth.
This Joint Fund has been structured financially highly beneficial conditions for the country, compared to the reality of
international financial markets, maximizing the use of energy resources and achieving the balance of the financial costs.

40

At the end of 2011, the Republic has received a total of $ 32,000 MM
through this mechanism, with which they have been developed and carried out:
-P
? rojects infrastructure such as trains, highways, ports
maritime and telecommunications networks.
-P
? rojects of social development, such as homes, hospitals and health care facilities.
-P
? rojects energy development, such as refineries, plants
natural gas processing, pipelines for oil and gas
natural, processing plants liquefied gas extraction projects, transportation and marketing of coal;
-P
? rojects transportation of crude oil and by-products and tank construction.
- Industrial projects such as shipbuilding integration
commercial enterprises related to natural gas, fertilizer manufacturing, manufacturing of chemicals.
- Projects for the automotive industry.
- Agribusiness projects, companies for product assembly
high-tech companies providing services to industry
oil, steel and aluminum manufacturing and mining companies.
This policy of the Bolivarian Government has allowed independence from
multilateral financial institutions like the International Monetary Fund
(IMF), World Bank (WB) and the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB).
This initiative has recovered economic autonomy, flexibility in negotiations and national sovereignty in order to realize alliances with other non-traditional sources of financing.
1.3.5.2. Promote the creation of financing mechanisms, similar to
Joint Chinese-Venezuelan Fund.
1.3.5.3. Promote the establishment of trusts for funding
infrastructure projects.
41

1.3.6. Maintain and consolidate the complementarity and cooperation agreements with allied countries.
1.3.6.1 Strengthen and expand energy cooperation agreements (PPAs).
The CCE emerge as a proposal by the Bolivarian Government to realize the energy union of peoples, as a geopolitical tool
allowing use energy resources for powering the establishment of relations more just, supportive and efficient in the fight against poverty, reducing economic and social inequalities.
The CCE welcome the principles of energy integration, solidarity, complementarity, fair trade, promotion of investment in Latin America, special and differential treatment nations according to their abilities.
These initiatives share the historical and fundamental purpose of uniting
the capabilities and strengths of the countries involved, to define
joint main line of action common policy among states that share the same vision of the exercise of sovereignty, developing each
their own identity.
Among the major energy agreements are: Argentina,
Uruguay, Nicaragua and Cuba, which have served as a mechanism for payment of the oil bill, goods and services necessary for the
comprehensive social development of the country, such as agricultural products, machines,
power plants, health services, medical equipment and others.
1.3.6.2. Strengthening agreements under PetroCaribe.
The Petrocaribe energy cooperation agreement was signed with 14 nations of the Caribbean in order to resolve the asymmetries in
access to energy resources through a new system of trade favorable, equitable and just between the countries of the region
Caribbean.
PetroCaribe is conceived as an alliance capable of ensuring the coordination and articulation of energy policies, technological cooperation,
training, development of energy infrastructure and the aprovecha42

ment of alternative sources. Its main objective is to contribute to energy security, socioeconomic development and integration of countries
Caribbean and Central America, through the sovereign use of resources
energy.
At the end of 2011 this important mechanism of integration and cooperation has 18 signatory nations.
1.3.6.3. Strengthening of ALBA.
1.3.7. Design and establish effective and innovative mechanisms, aimed at
promote people's participation in oil revenues by investing and saving.
1.3.7.1. Strengthening and expanding innovative mechanisms savings for the Venezuelan population, such as the National Savings Fund of the Working Class and People's Savings Fund.
NATIONAL GOAL:
1.4. L
? chieve guarantee food sovereignty for the sacred right to feed our people.
Unlocking our productive potential agro: 3665780 hectares, with high.
fertility for crop production, 12,830,230 hectares. low fertility
plant production and planting grasses and 27,493,350 hectares. for pasture and
forest.
Inventories of agricultural land that has been done in the country have
have shown that about 2% of the country
without limitations of climate, soil, drainage or unfavorable topography.
It has also been found that if we applied massively technologies
we have developed for our farmers and research centers,
potential numbers could reach 4%, which could be used in
a wide range of agricultural uses (many food crops, pastiza43

them or forest), 14% for a limited number of crops (food,
pasture or forest that resist low fertility, drought or excess
humidity), 30% for crops, grassland or forest of great resistance
strong limitations as very low fertility, severe droughts or floods,
and the remaining land would be for natural hedges and forests
sheets or conservation purposes, protective or service
environmental and water production and biodiversity.
These potential and feasible figures, compared with the population expected in the coming decades, indicate that we have enough land
to meet our needs of food production and service
environmental, as long as we use them rationally.
As part of the Great Mission Agro Venezuela, which registered
684,883 farmers and producers across the country, we can achieve food availability with domestic production, with emphasis on production
cereals, legumes, roots and tubers, fruit, vegetables, beef, poultry, pork, egg and milk, as well as marine and inland fisheries and
aquaculture, increasing the availability of energy for daily inhabitant,
protein, fat and carbohydrates national origin to 90% of the nutritional requirements of Venezuelans, generating surpluses in the
production of cereals, fruits and tropical crops for export.
STRATEGIC GOALS AND OBJECTIVES:
1.4.1. Definitely eliminate large estates. Through a process of organization and agro-ecological zoning based on the capabilities of use
land and create a system of rural land to ensure fair access and
rational use of soil resources.
1.4.1.1. Increase vegetables cultivated for short-cycle surface,
less than 42%, from 2.88 hectares to 4.12 MM MM hectares
year at the end of the period.

44

1.4.1.2. Expand irrigated agricultural area of ​​178 thousand hectares, up
538 thousand hectares under irrigation by 2019, representing an increase of 202%.
1.4.2. Accelerate the democratization of access, by farmers and
farmers, growers and producers and the various collective forms and
socialist enterprises, the necessary resources (land, water, irrigation, seeds,
capital) for producing, promoting the rational and sustainable use of
thereof.
1.4.2.1. Incorporate the park of agricultural machinery, favoring collective organization for use of 110,000 tractors, 30,000 harvesters and 400 thousand implements for planting, based on national development
the manufacturing and assembly industry.
1.4.2.2. Strengthen programs for roads (maintenance and construction
new roads) and rural electrification with the creation of brigades and units
road mechanization by the Bolivarian National Militia, community and peasant councils, networks of Free and Associated Producers,
the mayors, the governors and the National Institute of Rural Development.
1.4.3. Consolidate a set of public policies to support production,
rural sector organization and participation of the peasant people power
in planning. Such as increasing state investment and
Private Banking, under the leadership of the Bolivarian Government, development
through integrated rural infrastructure, financing to small
and medium producers, development of generation projects foods
and scientific and technological development. As well as investment in science and technology and the consolidation of socialist agroindustrial production systems,
access to plant genetic resources and animal adapted to conditions
tropical. The promotion of fisheries development through the modernization of the fleet of ships and maritime and inland fisheries infrastructure and
local production of inputs for agricultural production such as fertilizers,
products for crop protection, additives, drugs of use veterina45

rio, food and vitamins for animals, promoting the use of technology
tip to protect the natural physical environment.
1.4.3.1. Increased domestic food production (crops, livestock and aquaculture, fishing) by 45%, from 29.4 MM tons up
42.7 MM tons / year.
1.4.3.2. Increase grain production by at least 70%, growing
5.13 MM MM tons to 8.73 tons / year.
1.4.3.3. Growing legume production (65%), oil
(73%), tropical crops: coffee and cocoa (46%), vegetables (40%).
1.4.3.4. 38% increase in livestock production, from 5.32 tons to 7.35 MM MM tons / year.
1.4.3.5. Raise at least 45% in the production of cattle, 43% of pigs,
45% of birds, 44% of eggs for consumption.
1.4.4. Strengthen infrastructure, development and operation of the great socialist agricultural primary production centers and large irrigation systems, managed by socialist enterprises, prioritizing
integration of production processes on an industrial scale.
1.4.4.1. Advancing the Integrated Rural Development Project of the Orinoco Delta
in Cocuina Islands, Manamito and Guara in the states of Monagas and Delta Amacuro.
1.4.4.2. Advance the Socialist Píritu-Becerra Integral Agricultural Development Project in the state of Guarico.
1.4.4.3. Start the Socialist Agrarian Development Project Elorza Axis - Mantecal, in Apure state.
1.4.4.4. Start Project Development Axis Socialist Agroecológico
"Plain High" in Barinas and Trujillo.
1.4.4.5. Start Plan for Comprehensive Agricultural Development Guanarito municipality in the Portuguesa, Barinas and Cojedes.
1.4.4.6. Start the Integral Development Project Paguey-Socialist axis Santo
Sunday, municipality Barinas, Barinas state.
1.4.4.7. Start the Integral Socialist Agrarian Development Project in the Area
Axis of Influence Biruaca Achaguas, Apure and in Guarico.
46

1.4.5. Strengthen networks of production and distribution of products for direct consumption and agro-processing system.
1.4.5.1. Start construction of Bovine Milk Processing Plant "Dabajuro" Falcon state.
1.4.5.2. Start the installation and commissioning of the Matadero Magnet "Mantecal" in Apure state.
1.4.5.3. Start construction, installation, commissioning and rehabilitation
Refrigerator a slaughterhouse in the state of Anzoategui Libertad municipality.
1.4.5.4. Project completion Storage Grains and Oilseeds
Turn Caras Agroindustrial Complex, Portuguesa state.
1.4.5.5. Cavas start building in Seed Storage
Portuguesa, Lara and Carabobo states.

1.4.5.6. Start building 14 homes nationwide Fisheries Work in Carabobo, Aragua, Apure, Falcon, Nueva Esparta, Sucre,
Miranda and Portuguese.
1.4.6. Create, strengthen and support the local distribution centers and the
big cities, selling and direct distribution of consumer products
direct, ensuring access by the population, and a fair return to peasant labor, encouraging the development of trade
export.
1.4.6.1. Expanding networks Mercal, PDVAL, Bicentennial, community markets and free distribution programs socialist distribution.
1.4.6.2. Strengthen and modernize the system of social and state regulation
I fight usury and speculation in the purchase and distribution of food, given its nature as well essential to human life.
1.4.7. Consolidating agribusiness control apparatus under socialist enterprises, ensuring at least 60% of the storage capacity and
processing basic items (cereals, oilseeds, pulses, sugar,
meat and milk) and 30% in the rest of the food items.

47

1.4.7.1. Completing the Industrial Complex Plants and factories for Agro-Processing Machinery and Equipment Watering "Factories Factory" in Anaco, Anzoategui state.
1.4.7.2. Complete the incubator eggs "Loma Larga" plant, Anzoategui state.
1.4.7.3. Build a Storage Shed in Plant Fertilizer
Moron, Carabobo state.
1.4.7.4. Consolidate breeding centers and Animals from hens and chickens in
Anzoategui, Guarico and Portuguesa (Joint Venture Poultry Alba).
1.4.7.5. Install the freezing tunnel in Beneficiadora Plant Bird,
located in the municipality Carlos Arvelo Carabobo state (Joint Venture
Poultry Alba).
1.4.7.6. Build Genetic Center Josefa Camejo, for the production of
F1 pigs of high genetic quality, located in Falcon state (Empresa
Swine mixed Alba).
1.4.7.7. Complete the Commercial Farm José Leonardo Chirino for pigs
F1, located in Lara state (Joint Venture Pigs of Alba).
1.4.7.8. Building a Shed Shipyard (Pescalba).
1.4.7.9. Build Tractor Factory Grand National Pauny of Venezuela. Phase II. (Machining Company Pedro Camejo), El Sombrero, state
Guarico.
1.4.7.10. Creation of four Technical Centers Genetic Socialist "Florentino" for cattle, located in Bolivar, Guarico, Anzoategui and
Cojedes (INIA).
1.4.7.11. Completing the construction of the Industrial and Assembly Plant
Manufacture of grain harvesters, Phase II (Machining Company
Peter Camejo) in Tinaco, Cojedes state.
1.4.7.12. Install a Breeding Center Shrimp located
in Sucre state.
1.4.8. Development of a support system and incentives to promote international trade in agricultural export items.
48

1.4.8.1. Export form joint ventures with allies countries
China, Russia and Iran.
1.4.8.2. Design and implement an export policy to the Caribbean
and north of Brazil.
1.4.8.3. Define, within the framework of international agreements and integration,
trade policies to protect domestic agriculture.
1.4.9. Establish mechanisms to exercise the new revolutionary institutions to ensure the participation of small and medium producers in decisions on agricultural matters, through the peasant councils and networks of free and associated producers.
1.4.10. Promote diversified production models, from the family, rural, urban, peri-urban and indigenous agriculture, retrieving, validating and disseminating traditional and sustainable production models
ensure at least 50% by volume of the total production.
1.4.10.1. Promote innovation and technological inputs for production
smallholder agriculture, increasing efficiency and productivity rates.
1.4.10.2. Encourage the organization and training of popular power and forms
collective development of production processes at the local level, through
expansion of schools and cadre training course.
1.4.10.3. Promote the development and use of low-input technologies,
reducing environmentally harmful emissions.
1.4.11. Promote diversified production models, from the family, rural, urban, peri-urban and indigenous agriculture, retrieving, validating and disseminating traditional and sustainable production models
ensure at least 50% by volume of the total production.
1.4.11.1. Promote innovation and technological inputs for production
smallholder agriculture, increasing efficiency and productivity rates.
1.4.11.2. Encourage the organization and training of popular power and forms
collective development of production processes at the local level, through
expansion of schools and cadre training course.
49

1.4.11.3. Promote the development and use of low-input technologies,
reducing environmentally harmful emissions.
NATIONAL GOAL:
fifteen. D
? evelop our scientific and technological capabilities linked to people's needs.
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES AND GENERAL:
1.5.1. Strengthen scientific, technological and innovative character style
transformer, diverse, creative and deeply dynamic, guarantor of the independence and economic sovereignty. This initiative will aim at
the use of national capacities and potentialities, so
manner that recognizes the different actors, forms of organization and dynamics in the process of knowledge generation, thus contributing to the
construction of the socialist productive model, strengthening Ethics
Socialist and effectively meeting the needs of the Venezuelan people.
1.5.1.1. Develop a scientific, technological and innovation activity directly associated with the national productive structure, which allows the construction of the necessary conditions for achieving sovereignty
economic and technological independence, as a prerequisite for
effective satisfaction of social needs. This guideline should be developed through the formulation and implementation of transdisciplinary structuring projects, generating scientific knowledge, technological
and innovative to respond directly to specific problems of the sector
national production, encouraging the development of escalation processes
Industrial oriented exploitation of the potential, with effective
technology transfer. A National Network of Technology Parks for the development and application of Science, Technology and Innovation is created
in those thematic areas and industrial parks in general.

50

1.5.1.2. Strengthen and guide the scientific, technological and innovation activities to the effective utilization of the potentials and capacities
for sustainable national development and meeting social needs, directing research towards strategic areas defined
as priorities for the solution of social problems. It will be promoted
creating innovation units associated with socio units in organized communities, taking advantage of the establishment
national and regional networks of scientific and technological cooperation to
to strengthen the capacities of the National System of Science, Technology and
Innovation.
1.5.1.3. Ensure timely access and proper use of telecommunications and information technologies, through the development of infrastructure
required, as well as applications critically and attending to social needs and dissemination. Based content will be generated
national values, multiethnic and multicultural of our people,
While the principles inherent in the Bolivarian Socialism is encouraged.
1.5.1.4. Promote training for science, work and production, as
support for the advancement of scientific and technological revolution, through
training that links science and technology to production and work organizational forms and construction of scientific knowledge
and its spread from the collective as well as from the different institutions and
organizations of the national education system. To that end, consolidating spaces encourage citizen participation in the management
public of the thematic and territorial areas related to science,
technology and innovation.
1.5.2. Consolidating the deployment of the educational infrastructure of the country, in the
colleges, technical means and occupational training for
liberating work for as well as the direct association of infrastructure
training and innovation to the industrial park, both directly in the
production units and industrial parks, created in the transition strategy the production network.
51

1.5.2.1. Update and training programs to address the needs and demands of the national productive system, to ensure the
technical, professional and vocational training of labor, encouraging each
effort patriotic values ​​and critical thinking in the organization for the
liberating work.
1.5.2.2. Fostering School program in the factory or production unit
effects not only to improve the levels of preparation for work, but
even the same culture, the organization in councils of workers and the semi-
Circle as substantial elements of change in the production model.
1.5.3. Ensure conditions that allow organizations and all
people in the country access to timely communication
and ethics in order to contribute to meeting the needs and the
Training in the use, creation and distribution of content for the good life
of our people.
1.5.3.1. Develop applications critically and taking
social needs.
1.5.3.2. Generate and disseminate national values-based, multi-ethnic and multi-cultural content of our peoples; and with them the principles inherent in the Bolivarian Socialism.
1.5.3.3. Ensuring the creation and appropriation of knowledge for development, production and proper use of telecommunications and information technologies.
NATIONAL GOAL:
1.6. F
? Reinforce the defensive power for protecting national independence and national sovereignty, ensuring resources and wealth
our country for future generations.

52

STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES AND GENERAL:
1.6.1. Increase the defense capability of the country to the consolidation and
strengthening of territorial redistribution of the National Armed Forces
Bolivariana.
1.6.1.1. Keep plans for the Territorial Defense and Integrated Defense adapted to the geo-strategic and socio-political characteristics
our country.
1.6.1.2. Increase military operational activity on the borders of our
country in order to control and neutralize transnational crime, as well as
Action generators of violence and the defense of our territory.
1.6.1.3. Make the processes of creation, restructuring, retooling
and relocation of military units, catering to the needs of the
Integral defense of the homeland and its sovereignty.
1.6.1.4. Prepare the country for Integral Defense covering all levels of the State Public Power by the People and the Bolivarian National Armed Forces.
1.6.1.5. Increase the active participation of the people to consolidate
civil-military union.
1.6.2. Strengthen and improve the system of Intelligence and Counterintelligence
Military for Integrated Homeland Defense.
1.6.2.1. Consolidate Territorial Intelligence and Counterintelligence System
Military.
1.6.2.2. Massify orderly search for information useful for
security and defense of the homeland.
1.6.2.3. Update and adapt the curriculum in the area of ​​intelligence and
counterintelligence according to the Bolivarian Military Thought.
1.6.2.4. Promote the adoption of the legal framework necessary to develop
the areas of intelligence and counterintelligence of our Bolivarian National Armed Forces.
1.6.3. Strengthen the Bolivarian National Militia.
53

1.6.3.1. Increase the development of the Territorial Militia in order to
ensure the necessary strength for the overall defense of the country.
1.6.3.2. Increase and enhance the use of the Militia in functions
support to national development.
1.6.3.3. Promote and enhance the creation of Fighters Bodies
all structures of the Venezuelan State.
1.6.3.4. Strengthen and increase the incorporation of more compatriots to
National Bolivarian Militia.
1.6.3.5. Design strategies to ensure the participation of the people
ensure the fight under any circumstances, for these are adverse.
1.6.4. Increase and maintain the Operational Readiness of the Armed Forces
Integral to the Bolivarian National Homeland Defense.
1.6.4.1. Modernize, maintain, store and maintain equipment and
weapons systems of the Bolivarian National Armed Forces.
1.6.4.2. Strengthen logistics support system and our military health
Bolivarian National Armed Forces.
1.6.4.3. Increasing reserves of materials, systems and equipment
Integral support of Homeland Defense.
1.6.4.4. Increase the acquisition of weapons systems and materials for the
allocation of units.
II. Continue building Bolivarian Socialism
THE CENTURY IN VENEZUELA AS THE ALTERNATIVATIVA
WILD MODEL OF CAPITALISM AND THEREFORE ENSURE
"The greatest sum of happiness possible, the greatest amount of
SOCIAL SECURITY AND POLITICAL STABILITY greatest amount of "our people.

54

NATIONAL GOAL:
21. P
? ropulsar the transformation of the economic system, for the transition to the Bolivarian socialism, transcending the oil rentier capitalist model towards the socialist productive economic model,
based on the development of the productive forces.
"The Spanish America asked two revolutions at once, the Public and Economic ...". Simon Rodriguez
STRATEGIC GOALS AND OBJECTIVES:
2.1.1. Promote new forms of organization of production that put
at the service of society the means of production and promote the creation of productive tissue under a new metabolism for the transition to
socialism.
2.1.1.1. Insert new production schemes aiming at socialism
radiate in its environment relations of production and exchange complementary and supportive, while supporting tissues constitute productive
a new metabolism. These grafts have productive policies
association with each other in ways conglomerate to multiply its scale.
2.1.1.2. Promote the democratization of the means of production and boost
new forms of articulation of forms of property, placed at the service of society.
2.1.1.3. Strengthening central planning and budgeting system
development and addressing the strategic chains nationwide.
2.1.2. Expand and integrate production chains orienting towards
meeting social needs in road construction
socialism.
2.1.2.1. Generate a system of integration of productive networks, to articulate the value chain of raw materials, diversifying
production for the satisfaction of social needs of the population.
55

2.1.2.2. Strengthen national production, updating technologically to provide the material basis articulating the new model for the
building socialism.
2.1.2.3. Strengthen productive sectors where the country this comparative advantages, guiding the surpluses as alternative to mono-exporting economic base model.
2.1.2.4. Form a system of industrial parks to strengthen
themed joint production chains and national industrial fabric,
incorporating logistic facilities, training, technology and distribution system of inputs and outputs with fair prices.
2.1.3. Develop management models of inclusive production units
participatory with workers, aligned with the policies
national as well as a work culture that opposes the oil profiteering, removing the existing oligopolistic and monopolistic structure.
2.1.3.1. Build a work culture that opposes the rentismo
by promoting the formation from the praxis of work, awareness
the working man and, as agents of transformation and democratic participation of labor under the highest interests
nationals.
2.1.3.2. To provide a new management model in production units-in
units direct and indirect social property; efficient, sustainable and
to generate social or economic returnability the production process to more
high national interest.
2.1.3.3. Develop a system of incentives for the development of small
-sized private enterprises, joint ventures within the framework of maximum
social responsibility of the productive apparatus, recognizing work
men and women entrepreneurs.
2.1.3.4. Contribute to the socio-economic welfare of the environment where
production units settle in a policy semi-circle, giving
accommodate popular participation in social and economic processes and
56

of social control. Larger scale units ramifications of inputs to foster community level, to cooperate in meeting the needs of our communities.
2.1.4. Strengthening direct distribution system, alternative input
Products and attacking capitalism's own speculation.
2.1.4.1. Build and strengthen state distribution chains, community
and mixed that represent alternatives in distribution and direct savings to the
population of end products and intermediate consumption.
2.1.4.2. Promote transport systems, distribution tend to flow
direct goods from the production units consumer centers
collection or intermediate production units.
NATIONAL GOAL:
2.2. Build an egalitarian and just society.
For the period 2013-2019, we assume the challenge of deepening the revolution
Bolivarian what constitutes its essence: social justice. Continuity
Revolution must ensure the irreversibility of the process in terms
to advances in human rights; in conditions that preclude
back to poverty under the conditions that have given the intensification of the fight against social inequalities; what has allowed to go
progress on the release of people; in the active participation of
people in social missions. Carry forward the objective of building
a just and equal society is to advance on the road to socialism,
You mean the full rewarding future life conditions, built with
the same town as the subject.
In this new phase, continue to build an egalitarian and just society,
It requires the development of a system of prevention, protection and security
that social policy must acquire a new quality to become the most
powerful tool for living life as a condition of release,
independence and sovereignty of the Venezuelan people in transit to the socia57

ism. This requires extraordinary progress around key processes involving radical social transformation, which
They are strategic goals for the revolution.
STRATEGIC GOALS AND OBJECTIVES:
2.2.1. Further momentum to the transformation of the essential relationships
the people with nature, with the state, society, the process of
work and thinking.
2.2.1.1. Deployment of socialist relations among workers
with the work process, from the development of the new Organic Act
Labour and the Workers, enters other revolutionary policies.
2.2.1.2. Ensure safe physical, cognitive, and moral development environment
and healthy work, working conditions and social security
rewarding.
2.2.1.3. Overcoming disguised employment relationships of hired labor.
2.2.1.4. Ensure collective training in the workplace, ensuring
It is joining the productive, supportive and liberating work.
2.2.1.5. Ensure universal guarantee of basic services concerning
the contingencies of old age, survivors, disability, invalidity, unemployment and unemployment resulting from the link with the market
job.
2.2.1.6. Promote harmonization of work and family life.
2.2.1.7. Reinforce values ​​that protect the identity, build sovereignty
and defense of the country, from the physical, spiritual and intellectual enjoyment, and
recognition of our cultural and natural heritage.
2.2.1.8. Steadily increasing production and distribution of goods
cultural nationally, through the production of 15,000,000 copies of magazines System Mass 2,500,000 per year and rising
book production by 200%.
58

2.2.1.9. Increase cultural infrastructure available to the people, with the
construction of 336 rooms Book-reading, one for the municipality that has
with books, tables, chairs and furniture for reading.
2.2.1.10. Enhance cultural expressions of the country.
2.2.1.11. Boosting networks of community-based organizations
cultural.
2.2.1.12. Expand the Network of Intellectuals and Artists and multiply agreements
cultural cooperation for the production of goods and services.
2.2.1.13. I consolidate the popular role in the cultural and sporting events, focusing on the creation of a generating awareness
transformations for the construction of socialism.
2.2.1.14. Universal social security for artists and creators cultists.
2.2.1.15. Releasing Strengthen Cultural Expressions.
2.2.1.16. Visible the historical community identity (Corazon Adentro Cultural Mission).
2.2.1.17. Promote intercultural integration agreements.
2.2.1.18. Expanding conditions that guarantee the rights of everyone, respecting the social, legal, physical, age and cultural diversity present
individuals or groups.
2.2.1.19. Attend Habitat and Infrastructure for indigenous peoples.
2.2.1.20. Accelerate the demarcation of their territorial spaces through
delivering land titles to indigenous communities and provision of decent housing to every Indian family vulnerable, respecting their cultural options.
2.2.1.21. Promote education, training and financing for units
socio-productive, in 2345 strengthening socialist community councils and indigenous communities by financing projects, respecting
practices and traditional forms of organization.
2.2.1.22. Expand the presence of the Great Socialist Missions and Missions in indigenous communities, recognizing and respecting their culture
and traditions.
59

2.2.1.23. Strengthen gender equality with socialist values.
2.2.1.24 deepen political and active participation of women in
Popular Power.
2.2.1.25. Encourage productive economic culture, solidarity, socialist base, with the inclusion of all who are of working age, to promote the inclusion in the national productive system.
2.2.1.26. Stimulate socialist ethics recreational spaces for young people, aimed at peace, coexistence and community sports practices, training 900,000 young people in recreational and sports programs and incorporating
5,200,000 participation of young people in programs for the use of leisure time.
2.2.1.27. Promoting opportunities for comprehensive training, volunteering
attend vulnerable young estimating care
4,000,000 vulnerable youth through 400,000 young people trained to be preventing generate vulnerability factors.
2.2.1.28. Strengthen the organization and active participation of young people,
by building 3,000 Youth People's Councils.
2.2.1.29. Advance social transformation detained by
the incorporation of family, community councils, social organizations and any other form of organization, work relevant to the matter
prison.
2.2.1.30. Combat impunity, the procedural delay penalty and other benefits, in coordination with the Public Ministry, Public Defense and Power
Judicial.
2.2.1.31. Improve and build infrastructure for prison communities.
2.2.1.32. Prison Communities promote socialist production.
2.2.1.33. Generate alternative to serving the sentence.
2.2.1.34. Create conditions for post prison support: not disclosed
criminal record and insert in Partner Education and Labor programs.
2.2.1.35. Deepen the educational and communicative action according to the
consolidating the values ​​and principles of democratic and social state
60

law and justice, enshrined in the Constitution of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela, as well as enriching the awareness of environmental protection as a requirement to preserve the planetary life.
2.2.1.36. Develop a comprehensive scientific policy concerning disclosure protection and biodiversity of our country, and in particular the
It found in our parks and water reservoirs
our country and what they represent for the planet.
2.2.1.37. Further conditions to generate a culture and recreation
liberating and integrating environmental values ​​around the country, as a way of liberation of consciousness, peace and sport
harmonious coexistence.
2.2.1.38. Deepening mass sports.
2.2.1.39. Form the National Fund for Sport, Physical Activity and Physical Education to promote mass sports.
2.2.1.40. Expand the infrastructure of the Mission Barrio Adentro Deportivo to
parish and all sports facilities level.
2.2.1.41. Strengthen high performance sport, with comprehensive support
top athlete and sports heroes; development of medicine and
applied science to high performance sport; Development Centers
High Performance and National Sports Talent School.
2.2.1.42. Contribute to the systematic, massive and diversified practice of physical activity in communities and public spaces, through training
physical activity in the Bolivarian Educational System.
2.2.2. Deepening the conditions that ensure to the Venezuelan family,
the greatest amount of social security and supreme happiness, from values ​​and
principles of respect, equality, solidarity, responsibility, framed
social justice as the essence of building socialism.
2.2.2.1. Strengthen the fight against the determinants of conditions
inequality that need to be blasted to eradicate extreme poverty.
2.2.2.2. Eradicate extreme poverty, according to revenue (abject poverty 0).
61

2.2.2.3. Continue reducing overall poverty.
2.2.2.4. Reduce the number of vulnerable people.
2.2.2.5. Keep Venezuela as the world's largest classroom through
deepening and broadening of the conditions of entry, prosecution and
Exit to guarantee the right to basic education for all and everyone,
the task of forming citizens and that the republic needs.
2.2.2.6. Extend the coverage of school fees to the entire population, with
emphasis on the excluded populations; as follows: a) Stage maternal: increase enrollment from 13% to 40%; b) pre-school: universal enrollment at 100% coverage; c) Primary Stage:
increasing globalization consolidate 100% of the target population;
d) general secondary education: increase enrollment to achieve 100%
the entire population reaches an average level not less than
technical education or average overall average; e) Increasing tuition
technical education by 40%.
2.2.2.7. Develop bilingual intercultural education.
2.2.2.8. Expand infrastructure and school and sports provision, and give
continue the incorporation of information technologies and communication in the educational process.
2.2.2.9. Adapting the education system to the production model.
2.2.2.10. Strengthen and encourage research in the educational process.
2.2.2.11. Consolidation of the university transformation around the integral formation, intellectual production and social institutions that guarantee
the development of creative potential and response capacity against
the priority problems of the country and the strategic objectives of the Project
National Simon Bolivar.
2.2.2.12. Consolidate the constitutional right to higher education
for everyone, strengthening the income and expenditure prosecution by
the 90% increase in the inclusion of young graduates system
University education.
62

2.2.2.13. Deepen political relevance of territorial management and development of university education, through increased
It municipalized enrollment by 60%, with the Sucre Mission and Alma Mater.
2.2.2.14. Develop training programs and projects-research
respond to the needs and production potential necessary
for development.
2.2.2.15. Expand the scientific, technical and humanistic capacity to ensure the security and sovereignty in the production of material inputs,
as the theoretical-methodological and artistic production, necessary for the proper
live by the 70% increase in funding for research
and innovation projects aimed at propping up the people's happiness.
2.2.2.16. Ensure the health of the population through the consolidation of the National Public Health System, based on the deepening of Barrio
Inside, the People's Power and the articulation of all levels and areas of
system protection, promotion, prevention and comprehensive health care
individually and collectively. So we expect: a) Increase 100% coverage
Population of comprehensive medical care in primary care with Barrio
Adentro I and II, and Specialty Care Barrio Adentro III and IV; b) Reduce maternal mortality 37.3 per 100,000 live births. Reduce
Mortality in children under 5 years 11.7 per 1,000 live births.
2.2.2.17. Consolidating the new institutions of the National Public System
Health based on Barrio Adentro as integrating axis of the unique network of services, with only rectory, secured financing, sovereign development of science and technology, human talent quality and solidarity internationally.
2.2.2.18. Ensuring a healthy diet and proper nutrition to
Throughout the life cycle, in accordance with constitutional mandates
Health, food sovereignty and security, with the increasing prevalence of exclusive breastfeeding (EBF) by 70%.
2.2.2.19. Promoting social territories to strengthen partnership coexistence and citizen security in everyday family and community life,
and controllable release against risks.
63

2.2.2.20. Assure the population environments that promote physical activity,
recreation, culture and sport in schools, workplaces and
residential, to promote decreasing by 12% the percentage of
population 7-14 years are overweight (weight for height) and reduce sedentary
50%.
2.2.2.21. Promote the active participation of the People's Power in the areas of inter-sectoral coordination and institutional bodies for
promoting quality of life and health, through: a) Increased
Integrated graduates in various professions to National Public System
Health, meta 80,000 graduates. b) increased by 100% participation
of the organs of People's Power in the planning, implementation, monitoring and
evaluation of health actions in the Comprehensive Community Health Areas .; c) increase to 25,000 the number of popular health organizations,
Health committees - Community Councils.
2.2.2.22. Consolidate the sovereign ability and scientific and technological independence to produce and ensure the availability of human talent and
technical and inputs necessary for the health of the population, by increasing the proportion of essential medicines - scientific resources
produced in the country by 40%; and 60% increase in production
in the country required by the National Public Health System inputs.
2.2.2.23. Deepen and broaden the conditions that guarantee the security and
food sovereignty.
2.2.2.24. Strengthening domestic production in new areas, or areas in
domestic production which is relatively weak, to cover 30% of the
Domestic demand in oils and fats, and 50% of dairy products.
2.2.2.25. Improve production and distribution capabilities, through the
expansion and maintenance of the transport fleet to include 40%
the daily distribution of the Mercal network.
2.2.2.26. Expand storage facilities and selling products, with 50% expansion of networks areperas, bakeries and butchers Venezuela.
64

2.2.2.27. Consolidate power houses such as training centers and
nutritional care through the adaptation and transformation of 4,500 homes for Food, in training centers and nutritional care.
2.2.2.28. Consolidate and expand the network of popular pharmacies throughout the
National territory.
2.2.2.29. Carry out infrastructure works aimed at the construction, improvement and adaptation of industrial facilities to increase
production capacity of processing plants, packaging plants (operational capacity and processing), data storage (capacity
Dry and cold) and production lines, among others.
2.2.2.30. Educate and train the population, in order to achieve adapt their eating habits and consumption patterns. It aims to establish training camps as Mission Knowledge and Work, the canteens
National Institute of Nutrition and Food Foundation Programme
Strategic (Fundaproal).
2.2.2.31. Prevention and control of micronutrient deficiencies and promoting
food security in households.
2.2.2.32. Enlarge actions for insertion and socio-productive activation
of families from social ownership, the creation of community socio-productive networks, households, groups and supportive exchange
other forms of association for work and appropriate training.
2.2.2.33. Develop the Communal Economic System in different forms
socio-productive organization: socially owned enterprises, units
family solidarity exchange groups and other forms of association for
the work.
2.2.2.34. Strengthen the social base of the system of communal economy. Processes
Transfer of indirect social property companies at the request of
People's Power, and the self-sustaining funding.
2.2.2.35. Developing the People's Power in the socially owned enterprises
indirect. Tips shaping of Workers in
indirect social property companies.
65

2.2.2.36. Develop coordination mechanisms between the Community Councils
and Councils of Workers of property companies
direct social.
2.2.3. Consolidate the Great Socialist Mission Children of Venezuela and
Greater Love, a revolutionary tool that allows higher level
deepen the construction of social justice for the misery away
from Venezuela.
2.2.3.1. Complete the process of downsizing of the mission, in the light
the fulfillment of the objectives for which they were created or to meet
new challenges.
2.2.3.2. Create new large missions in areas, topics or issues prioritized according to strategic objectives.
2.2.3.3. Develop, from the large missions, systems accompanying territorial base to transform the lives of families and communities
in poverty.
2.2.3.4. Ensure special financing systems for sustainability
missions and Great Socialist Missions.
NATIONAL GOAL:
2. 3. Consolidate and expand the people's power and socialist democracy.
Achieving full sovereignty as a guarantee of irreversibility of the Bolivarian project is the central purpose of the exercise of power by the
conscious and organized people. The creation and development of new instances of popular participation realize how the Bolivarian Revolution
advances consolidating the hegemony and control of the political, social, economic and cultural orientation of the nation. The power he had been kidnapped
the oligarchy is being restored to the people, who, from battle to battle and
from victory to victory, it has increased its level of organizational complexity.

66

STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES AND GENERAL:
2.3.1. Ensure the active participation of organized people in
the fields of training, the transformation of productive economic model, prevention and social protection from new instances of popular participation as community councils, women's organizations,
youth and adolescents, indigenous, Afro-descendants, students, workers and
workers, peasants, motorized, professionals, small and
medium producers and traders, diverse population Sex, carriers,
farmers, environmentalists, people movements among the many others,
in the fields of training.
2.3.1.1. Accelerate the promotion of people's participation in the systems
communal aggregation: Community Councils, Social Battle Rooms, Communes Socialists, Communal Cities, federations and confederations
Community, to strengthen local capacity for action
territorial, political, economic, social, cultural, and ecological aspects
security and defense of national sovereignty.
2.3.1.2. From 2013 to 2016: the organization of 21,004 will be promoted
Community Councils that would link to 8,821,296 families (total coverage
Venezuela's population). From 2017 to 2019: You will accompany and promote the organization of 2,699 annual Community Councils (recital
the annual population growth rate at 1.7%, that is, that in 2019 was
will reach a total population of 30,550,479 inhabitants).
2.3.1.3. Aggregation and formation of 250 rooms will be promoted Battle
Social annually by reference to the average rooms incorporated in the four years of existence of the policy, in this sense, it will remain
the principle of promoting the instance as complementary political figure to achieve aggregation of Community Councils and making plans
integrated community management to achieve the transformation of the material and spiritual conditions.
2.3.1.4. The consolidation and support of People's Power in the 2013-2019 period 3000 will secure the establishment of social communities, con67

recital an annual growth of approximately 450 Communes, according to
the demographics of the axes of territorial development. These communes grouped 39,000 communal councils where they will make life of 4,680,000
families, representing 21.06 million citizens. This means that about
68% of Venezuelans 2019 (30,550,479) will live in sub-
aggregation of Communes.
2.3.2. Ensure the transfer of skills around management and public administration from the institutional, regional bodies and
organized into local communities, grassroots organizations and other
instances of Popular Power, as a strategic line of full restitution
to the sovereign people.
2.3.2.1. Achieve the consolidation of a system of coordination between the various bodies of People's Power in order to transcend local action
realm of the regional and national levels towards the construction of a subsystem
Communes, Districts Engine Development and Territorial Development Hubs,
in line with the territorial potential and cultural heritage of the
people of each locality, based on the harmony and consistency with the
strategic development plans of the nation.
2.3.2.2. Introduce the notion of responsibility on the process of community, regional and territorial planning to promote responsible participation of grassroots organizations in the study and establishment of
guidelines and strategic actions for the development of plans, works and
services in communities and regions.
2.3.2.3. 24 Units consolidate Comprehensive Community Technical Accompaniment (one per state), with multidisciplinary teams that ensure
communal effective and efficient management, in order to strengthen policy
comprehensive technical support to the People's Power in the exercise of Community Management.
2.3.2.4. Constitute a body composed of 4,500 professionals Inspectors
and technicians, under a program of training socio - political and technical - pro68

permanent ductive, developed by the School to Strengthen
People's Power.
2.3.2.5. Promote the organization and ensure the proper functioning of
Units Social Comptroller of the 29,101 community councils that
will promote under the 2013-2019, to promote exercise
the comptroller and social control in all areas of community work
as collateral for achieving the strategic objectives and the satisfaction of
the needs of people in organized communities.
2.3.3. Strengthening regional integration and national sovereignty, through the
balanced development of regions, promoting economic activities
generating effects of attraction and incentives to strengthen settlement
subsystem population in communes, thereby ensuring a distribution of the population in harmony with the use of productive capacities
the territory.
2. 3. 4. Ensure full social inclusion: the Popular Power as guarantor of
recognition of the dignity of the human being, as a subject in the exercise
their rights, recognizing the family as a determining factor
protection and fundamental basis of the new social scaffolding, whose premises
They must be harmony, solidarity, complementarity and co-responsibility as a way to live well.
2.3.4.1. Promote stewardship of Popular Power in the struggle for
eradication of poverty in all its manifestations.
2.3.4.2. 43,029 constitute Committees for Prevention and Protection in
Community Councils, committees at the rate of 6,174 per year on a sustained basis.
These committees will participate in the execution and implementation of plans and policies
oriented public attention and monitor the inclusion of vulnerable people in their communities and territories.
2.3.4.3. Strengthen special political, from the community to the highest level of population vulnerability: children and adolescents, adults and
older adults, people with disabilities, homeless people,
people with addictions, population sex-gender-diverse, among others.
69

2.3.4.4. Ensure the organization of beneficiary families Major
Mission Sons of Venezuela and Greater Love Venezuela, through bodies such as committees of elderly men and women, Patria Committees Pregnant
Committees and country girl.
2. 3. 4. 5. Promote community from a system of focused activities
to generate new patterns of recreation, which is inimical to culture
excess, destruction and disrespectful of human relationships
It generates capitalism.
2.3.4.6. 55,000 conformation Committees of Sport and Recreation, maintaining a sustained rate of 6,500 annual growth committees, which
will be jointly responsible for the planning and implementation of the Prevention Plan
Recreation and community.
2.3.4.7. Consolidating the system of activities focused on social prevention
through the promotion of the National Recreation Plan for the live well, the
which includes, among other processes incorporating the community
permanent sport through sports community sub-system,
ensuring the participation of 10 million people and recovery
public spaces for community development activities
cultural, recreational and preventive.
2.3.4.8. Develop annual Community Vacation Plan, with a focus on shared responsibility between the People's Power and institutions
revolutionary. 500,000 children and adolescents will be progressively incorporated in vulnerable situations.
2.3.4.9. Implement training programs and ongoing debate on
social prevention involving 420,000 spokespersons Power
People at the rate of 60,000 participants per year.
2.3.5. Consolidate the different processes of socialization of knowledge, aimed at enhancing capacities, skills and appropriate for the people to exercise public and sociocultural development tools
communities, expanding the number of participation, since 2008,
25,000 communal councils have participated in different progra70

more training developed by the School to strengthen the
People's Power.
2.3.5.1. Over the next seven years training in the different processes of socialization of knowledge, 47,000 communal councils projects.
2.3.5.2. Incorporation of 10,000 facilitators from different
People's organizations as major subjects in the processes
deformation.
2.3.5.3. Establishment of Training and embedded cores managed
by communities as a space for learning and socialization
Knowledge in three thousand Communes and Social Battle thousand rooms projected for this period.
2.3.5.4. Strengthen the exercise of popular education as a driving force
conscious mobilization of the people, aimed at the definitive return of
People's Power.
2.3.5.5. Development and specialization of training programs that improve the management capacity of the People's Power in skills that are transferred
in political, economic and social fields, and strategies for areas
national development.
2.3.5.6. 5,000 facilitators incorporate the actions of technical training
production of different productive organizations, through vocational guidance of spokespersons of organizations of Power
Popular.
2.3.5.7. Incorporate the socio-political and technical-productive training to
Productive 500,000 Army Brigades linked to the great missions.
2.3.6. Build new productive fabric of the country in new social relations of production, ensuring the transformation of primary inputs
of national production. It is then to strengthen and reinforce a productive, redistributive, post-rentier, post-capitalist economy on the basis
broad public, social and collective support of the ownership of the
means of production. The possibility of social planning in auténti71

ca sync with central planning and the development of the various
socio forms of organization, supported in various forms
ownership of free associated producers and producers, among them
highlight the social, indirect ownership, family owned and groups
solidarity exchange.
2.3.6.1. Generate a diversified and sustainable productive to ensure the development of communities and the nation, by the recovery,
strengthening, activation and creation of socially owned enterprises.
2.3.6.2. In the period 2013-2019 to promote the establishment of 30,000 enterprises
direct social property to transform the raw material and add value to domestically produced inputs, semi-industrial and industrial scale
to satisfy the needs of our people.
2.3.6.3. 1,000 drive new areas of production chain
communal level where it can develop phases of the production cycle
the 2013-2019.
2.3.6.4. Develop a new financial architecture based on the budgetary finance system, configuring the network of financial economic organizations that manage, administer, transfer, finance, facilitate, capture and control the financial and non-financial resources,
and returnable, managed by communities and different
grassroots of Popular Power.
2.3.6.5. Banks 3,000 conformation of the Commune will cement the new financial architecture of People's Power.
2.3.6.6. Promote the creation of 3,000 Tips on Communal Economy
43,000 communes and committees Communal Economy in 2013-2019.
2.3.6.7. Synchronize through central planning and activation
development of various forms of socio organization, promoting various forms of direct and indirect social property, family property, supportive exchange groups and freedom of association
of producers.
72

2.3.6.8. Registration and establishment of all Social Owned Enterprises
Communal Direct, Indirect Social Property Enterprises of Community, Family and Production Units existing Solidarity Exchange Groups
in the country.
2.3.6.9. Promote a policy of social reinvestment funds generated
by organized communities in order to amass the steward for the satisfaction of their needs and aspirations contribution.
2.3.6.10. Ensure socio inclusion, emancipated work,
transformation of the reserve army of capitalism in creative social force through the organization of the productive forces, generating a
new work culture.
2.3.6.11. Incorporating Productive 500,000 Army Brigade linked to the great missions.
NATIONAL GOAL:
2.4. C
? To convene and promote a new ethic, moral and spiritual guidance of society, based on the liberating values ​​of socialism.
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES AND GENERAL:
2.4.1. Preserving the moral heritage of the Venezuelan people and strengthen it by
Values ​​education strategies.
2.4.1.1. Preserving the traditional values ​​of the Venezuelan people, honesty, responsibility, dedication to work, love of neighbor, solidarity,
desire to excel, and the struggle for emancipation; through its continued promotion and through all available means, as a defense
against the anti-values ​​of the capitalist model, which promotes the exploitation,
consumerism, individualism and corruption, which are the origin of the
criminal violence that afflicts Venezuelan society.
2.4.1.2. Strengthening the moral heritage of the Venezuelan people by promoting the values ​​of socialism, socialist ethics and moral, training and
socialist self-education, conscious discipline based on criticism and au73

tocrítica, the practice of solidarity and love, consciousness of social duty
and the fight against corruption and bureaucracy.
2.4.1.3. Adapt curricula at all levels for inclusion
training strategies consonant with the new values ​​society
we are tilling.
2.4.2. Strengthen social control.
2.4.2.1. Continue to promote social control as a strategy for
exercise of the power and capacity to oversee the management Pueblo
agencies of public administration in the management of public funds and the effectiveness in reaching the goals of governance, giving
tools to strengthen their performance.
2.4.3. Strengthening the system of administration of justice, combating impunity, reforming the prison system, and promote communal peace justice.
2.4.3.1. Strengthening the justice system through the provision of the necessary means for optimal performance, including the level
criminal investigation to combat impunity.
2.4.3.2. Comprehensive reform of the prison system, with a view
in the comprehensive rehabilitation of detainees to facilitate their productive integration into a new society.
2.4.3.3. Promote community justice as an effective tool for peace
support peaceful coexistence and promoting the practice of solidarity and
love among Venezuelans.
NATIONAL GOAL:
2.5. L
? chieve the final emergence of the New Democratic and Social State of Law and Justice.
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES AND GENERAL:
2.5.1. Unleash the power contained in the Bolivarian Constitution for
exercise of participatory democracy.
74

2.5.1.1. Design, together with the grassroots People's Power plan
specific to the legislative and practical development of all constitutional articles that the people recognize the exercise of direct democracy.
2.5.2. Establish a permanent communication system, to listen to
organized and politicized people, as part of efforts to town
the collective construction of the Socialist State, under the principle of "command,
obeying. "
2.5.2.1. Check to strengthen and expand the mission system and Large
Missions, as forms of participation of the people in the new democratic institutions.
2.5.2.2. Set standard development conferences and procedures
popular interpellation on the management of public servants.
2.5.3. Developing the Federal system of government based on the principles of
territorial, economic and political integrity of the Venezuelan nation by
the active participation of workers, peasants, villagers,
indigenous peoples, Afro-descendants, women and youth in
functions of city government and administration of the factors and means of production of goods and services of social property.
2.5.3.1. Planning and executing the transfer of powers to the Communes,
communal councils, technical services tables, people's movements, indigenous peoples, councils of workers, of
motorized and motorized, students, in housing, sports,
culture, social programs, environment, maintenance of industrial areas,
maintenance and upkeep of urban areas, prevention and community protection, construction works and public services, among others.
2.5.3.2. Planning and implementing participation in economic processes, stimulating the different expressions of the economy and endogenous development,
through cooperatives, credit unions, social enterprises, collective and mixed ownership, mutual funds and other forms.
2.5.3.3. Implement, through the Federal Council of Government, a system of
planning with the states and municipalities for territorial development pro75

productive of the nation by developing Engines Development Districts, and the development of shared management systems, depending
to ensure the maintenance of roads, sanitation and
social infrastructure throughout the country.
2.5.4. Continue transforming and comprehensively reorganizing the public administration, to dignify and make public servants ever
more useful for the people.
2.5.4.1. Establish policy stimulus and recognition to public servants and popular and social leaders to develop the exercise of their functions under the socialist values ​​including ethics.
2.5.4.2. Forge a revolutionary culture of public service at all levels, strengthening the view that the administration officials
Are primarily public and public servants are there to serve the people of
expeditiously and honest.
2.5.4.3. Design and implement a policy to promote and enhance
culture of learning and socialist work, as indispensable mechanisms
for the transformation of the State, through the creation of training schools on Administrative and political cadres in state institutions, the socially owned enterprises and in the instances of Popular Power.
2.5.4.4. Run a process of gradual reorganization of the administration
State, standardizing and dignifying conditions of public servants, according to their roles and responsibilities, geared to the use of professional and work towards strengthening the productive economic model capabilities.
2.5.4.5. Deepen and implement mechanisms for political, administrative and criminal sanctions, as applicable, for public servants who commit
administrative, political and inefficiency in corruption.
2.5.4.6. Definitely eradicate traditional managers making
all the procedures for obtaining documents, perform authorizations, payments,
scholarships, pensions or make any legal management within the AD76

Public ministry, flow as quickly and neatly, through the
massification of technologies and unification of criteria.
2.5.4.7. Remove all unnecessary procedures on the requirements demanded of citizens for legal transactions with the
State or to obtain licenses, records, diplomas, certificates, etc.
2.5.5. Leading from the head of state a deep and permanent revolution in the system of administration of justice, for an end to impunity,
achieving equality in access and eradicate classist and racist in its
application.
2.5.5.1. To support the implementation nationwide of prosecutors and judges
Municipal.
2.5.5.2. Support increasing significantly the number of courts
in the country, especially in criminal matters.
2.5.5.3. Support increasing significantly the number of prosecutors to
Nacional level.
2.5.5.4. Support the development of the construction of new physical spaces
operating new courts and improve existing infrastructure.
2.5.5.5. Promote cohesion and organization of all existing legal instruments around the Justice System, which generate inconsistency
in the definitions and contribute to the administrative disorder in many
instances of it, such as the Penal Code, Criminal Procedure Code, Civil Code, among others.
2.5.5.6. Support training policies and training of judges or judges and
Public prosecutors aimed at developing a culture of responsibility
in the administration of justice based on the right to live well in the
humans who make up the Venezuelan society.
2.5.6. Deploy overdrive the Great Mission "A lifetime! Venezuela "conceived as a comprehensive public security policy, with special
focus on the 79 municipalities with the highest crime rate, in order to
transform structural factors, situational and institutional,
77

generators of violence and crime, to reduce them, increasing the harmonious coexistence and enjoyment of the people to free and safe exercise of their
family, community, social, educational, labor union activities,
economic, cultural and recreational.
2.5.6.1. Expansion and consolidation of comprehensive prevention and coexistence
community through the design, implementation and monitoring of the prevention plan
Comprehensive specially dedicated to young unemployed popular sectors; the application of a special patrol monitoring plan in
priority municipalities; activation to Communal Police Service nationally; the implementation of the work plan to gain control of
arms, ammunition and disarmament; and the intensification program
strengthening the investigation, apprehension and prosecution of persons
responsible for killings, kidnappings, robberies and thefts of vehicles.
2.5.6.2. Continue strengthening the public security organs and
citizens through the provision of individual and institutional equipment
the police and the communications modernization for an answer
quickly and effectively.
2.5.6.3. Deployment of the Bolivarian National Police throughout the country and
culmination of the process of reorganizing the Corps of Scientific, Penal and Criminal Investigations (CICPC).
2.5.6.4. Promote the transformation of the criminal justice system and support
creation of alternative dispute resolution mechanisms by
Installation of the Houses of Criminal Justice in each of the municipalities
prioritized.
2.5.6.5. Continue the transformation of the prison system.
2.5.6.6. Activating the National System of Care for victims.
2.5.6.7. Creation and sharing of knowledge for coexistence and citizen security, and the establishment of the Communal Center
Integrated Conflict Resolution.
2.5.6.8. Creating a strategic area or field of knowledge on public and public security within the National Endowment for Science, Technology
78

Innovation and complete the expansion of UNES in seven states:
Portuguesa, Bolivar, Falcon, Barinas, Apure and Nueva Esparta, in order to
increase training capacity of the new model of public safety
and citizen and localized knowledge production safety.
2.5.7. Guarantee the right to access and free exercise of information and
truthful communication.
2.5.7.1. Strengthen communication sovereignty, reporting our cultural, geographic, tourist and environmental heritage, as well as the productive and political development, with a view to strengthening integration processes
and Latin American and Caribbean unity. To do this, we intend to continue
contributing to the development of communication networks and means of expression
word, image and voices of our peoples.
2.5.7.2. Strengthen the use of media as an instrument of
training for the transition to socialism, promoting civic values, as well as responsible and critical media use. In
this task, it is essential to promote research on human communication as process and tool of transformation and social construction.
2.5.7.3. Consolidate the social regulation of the media as
tool for strengthening the People's Power, promoting and encouraging the Popular National Communication System (radio and TV
communal, community newspapers, environmentalists, workers, youth, party, union, peasant, etc.) as a space for articulation
meanings and relationships produced from the practice of communication
social and human, in order to transform reality from the People's Power
organized.
2.5.7.4. Update and develop technological platforms means
communication, building on the momentum that represents the launch
Open Digital Television (TDA), which will expand the quality of the
transmissions and offer a wider range of different signals.
79

III. CONVERT TO VENEZUELA IN POWER IN THE COUNTRY
Social, economic and political INSIDE THE GREAT
RISING POWER IN LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN TO
ENSURE THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A PEACE ZONE
OUR AMERICA.
NATIONAL GOAL:
3.1. Strengthening the role of Venezuela as a world energy power.
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES AND GENERAL:
3.1.1. Developing country production capacity in line with the huge hydrocarbon reserves under the principle of rational exploitation and
conservation policy exhaustible and non-renewable natural resource.
3.1.1.1. Achieving crude production capacity to 4 MBD for
MBD 2014 and 6 2019.
3.1.1.2. Achieving natural gas production for the year 2014-9247
MMPCD and in the year 2019 to 11,947 million cubic feet.
3.1.2. Develop the Orinoco Oil Belt.
3.1.2.1. Develop proven reserves of the Orinoco Oil Belt
to reach a total production capacity of 4 MBD by 2019.
3.1.2.2. Develop production of 6 new joint ventures already established production and processing of crude the Orinoco Oil
Orinoco, to reach production capacity of 2,090 bpd in 2019.
3.1.2.3. Build new breeders to convert the extra heavy crude
the Orinoco Oil Belt 8 ° API crude improved 32-42 ° API
a total capacity of 1 MBD processing.
3.1.2.4. Build two new refineries, one in Cabruta and the other in Industrial Complex José Antonio Anzoátegui with a processing capacity
total of 720 MBD.
3.1.2.5. 10,500 horizontal drilling oil wells, grouped in 520 tillers production.
80

3.1.2.6. Building a storage capacity of 20 million barrels and the laying of 2,000 km of pipelines between oil and diluenductos.
3.1.2.7. Build a deep-water terminal in the Sucre State
receipt and dispatch of crude and products with an export capacity of 2.0 MBD and three river terminals in solids and liquids
Orinoco River
3.1.2.8. Build five power plants with a total generating capacity of 2620 MW, which will use oil coke generated
the process of improving the raw Orinoco Oil Belt.
3.1.2.9. Build 2 industrial condominiums in the areas of Carabobo and
Junin to supply services to breeders.
3.1.2.10. Create 6 bases Petroindustriales Socialists (BPISOS) in the area
the Orinoco Oil Belt, in the areas of Palital, Chaguaramas and San
Diego de Cabrutica to develop metallurgical activities, services
wells, naval, manufacturing drills, locks, valves, and other tubular
goods and services.
3.1.3. Maintaining production in traditional areas of oil and gas.
3.1.3.1. Keep drilling activities, rehabilitation and repair
wells.
3.1.4. Maintaining production in traditional areas of oil and gas.
3.1.4.1. Continue adding new recovery projects
secondary and maintain and improve existing ones.
3.1.4.2. Maintaining and improving levels of reliability and maintainability
existing infrastructure.
3.1.5. Develop gas reserves in our territorial sea belt.
3.1.5.1. Develop existing potential in the gas Belt
Venezuela in Rafael Urdaneta project, Mariscal Sucre and Platform
Deltana, to reach a production capacity of 720 million cubic feet of gas
2014 and 2,030 million cubic feet for the year 2019.Acelerar gas exploration efforts Belt of Venezuela in the areas Blanquilla, Gulf
81

Venezuela, Ensenada de Barcelona, ​​northern facade and Mariscal Sucre
Atlantic, to search for new reserves of non-associated gas for incorporating gas reserves of 135 exploratory BPC expectation of natural gas.
3.1.5.2. Accelerate gas exploration efforts Belt of Venezuela in Blanquilla areas, Gulf of Venezuela, Ensenada de Barcelona,
Mariscal Sucre North Atlantic facade and to the search for new
non-associated gas reserves to incorporate gas reserves with expectations
BPC 135 exploratory natural gas.
3.1.6. Adapt and expand domestic refining circuit.
3.1.6.1. Adapt and expand domestic refining system 1.3 MBD
in 2013 to 1.8 MBD in 2019, to the further processing of heavy and extra-heavy crude from the Orinoco Oil Belt, and adapt it to
product quality standards at the national and international markets. This includes expansion projects and profound conversion
El Palito, Puerto La Cruz and Paraguana Refining Complex; and the
construction of 3 new refineries, Battle of Santa Ines of 100 MBD, MBD 350 Petrobicentenario and Cabruta capacity of 220 MBD.
3.1.7. Expand transportation infrastructure, storage and dispatch
oil and gas.
3.1.7.1. Adapt and expand existing transportation systems pipelines, as Sumandes and Sisor, and construction of new systems, as
Puerto La Cruz-Maturin, Bajo Grande Plant Ramón Laguna, El Vigia-La
Cold and El Palito-Barquisimeto.
3.1.7.2. Adapt and expand the network of fuel distribution plants,
including The Guamache and fishing port Guiria, and construction of new plants, as plant west of Caracas, Catia La Mar, Battle of Santa
Ines and Jose Cabruta.
3.1.7.3. Expanding the network of gas transport up to 1,965 kilometers
pipeline between existing and new pipelines as Jose Francisco
Bermudez (SINORGAS), the Northern Plains and Orinco-Apure Axis.
82

3.1.7.4. Increase production capacity liquid extraction
120 MBD natural gas through the gas processing projects
Soto Soto I and II, I and San Joaquin Pirital IV.
3.1.7.5. Strengthen and expand the coverage of the distribution network of methane
in order to move the LPG consumption and provide greater quality of life
the population through laying 11,760 km.
3.1.8. Strengthen and expand the domestic petrochemical industry.
3.1.8.1. Develop petrochemical projects for gas processing
natural, naphtha and refinery streams, transforming them into products
higher added value.
3.1.8.2. Consolidate and develop the six planned petrochemical:
Ana Maria Campos, Moron, José Antonio Anzoátegui, Paraguana Navay,
Puerto Otters and Guiria.
3.1.8.3. Increase the production of nitrogenous and phosphate fertilizers
by 43%, which will cover domestic demand and make Venezuela
an exporter of fertilizer for the entire region.
3.1.8.4. 300% increase in production capacity of olefins and traditional plastic resins, and develop other chains of plastic resins
necessary for the country and currently imported.
3.1.8.5. Expand 87% in installed capacity of the production sector of chemicals, focusing on the production of aromatic and development
chains downstream of methanol and urea.
3.1.8.6. Continue as part of the Great Mission Housing Venezuela, developing modular housing mills and accessories (Petrocasas) installed in different areas of the country 10 new plants, reaching a production
50,000 housing units / year, 800,000 windows / year and 800,000 doors /
year. Importantly, this production houses and accessories
It will be available from the second quarter of 2013.
3.1.9. Develop the related industrial complex to the oil, gas and petrochemical industries to strengthen our economic sovereignty industry.
83

3.1.9.1. Increase the capacity of assembly and manufacturing in the country
Drilling and well servicing equipment, through Company Industry
China Venezolana de Drills (ICVT) and others to create a capacity of
15 drills a year.
3.1.9.2. Strengthen the construction processes in Venezuela platforms
drilling and production of offshore fields, such as built Corocoro Petrosucre field, to ensure the timely
availability of equipment required to develop Mariscal Sucre,
Cardon IV and Deltana Platform, generating the highest possible local content in such projects.
3.1.9.3. Promote the activities of the State Enterprise Maintenance
to improve the time and cost of service shutdowns in the system
refining and improving the country.
3.1.9.4. Create State enterprises, and industrial conglomerates for Mixed
installation of Coke Calcining Plant, Metal Recovery
the Flexicoque and Coke Green, Plant ferrovanadium, Brea plant
Orimatita plant oil and, based on the integration of chains
Oil and Basic Industries and Mining of Iron-Steel and Aluminum Bauxite-sectors.
3.1.10. Strengthen and deepen Technological Sovereignty.
3.1.10.1. Promote development in the country's own improvement of heavy and extra heavy oil technology through site improvement processes, deep conversion processes of advanced hydrogenation
visbreaking and catalytic processes of Aquaconversión.
3.1.10.2. Position the use of secondary and tertiary technologies operating in heavy and extra heavy crude to reach a recovery factor
20%. These technologies include continuous injection of steam,
In Situ Combustion and surfactants Injection.
3.1.10.3. Create Socialist Petroleum Technical School for training
technical means required in more than 180 offices, through the incorporation of the Technical Mission Ribas with a capacity of 5,000 people per year.
84

3.1.10.4. Implement national headquarters and campus authorities
professors at the University of Hydrocarbons that meets the technical and ideological training of cadres generation respite areas
development of the Orinoco Oil Belt and Offshore.
3.1.10.5. Create the Research Institute of Coke and Minerals from processing the raw FPO for industrialization.
3.1.11. Further diversifying our markets.
3.1.11.1. Deepen diversification strategies crude markets
and products, with a target for 2019 of 2.200 MBD countries
Asians, 1,250 Latin American and Caribbean MBD, MBD 550 and 1,150 to Europe
MBD to America.
3.1.11.2. Deepen integration strategies and positioning of Venezuela in Latin America and the Caribbean, such as construction projects
refining capacity of 1,100 MBD among the countries of Ecuador, Brazil,
Nicaragua and Cuba, and 2,300 Km. Of crude transport capacity
up to 500 MBD to the Colombian Pacific. In Asia, the construction of
a capacity of 1,200 bpd represented in 3 refineries in China, one in
Vietnam and one in Syria.
3.1.12. Strengthen and enhance the operational capabilities of our national oil company Petroleos de Venezuela.
3.1.12.1. Intensify the necessary actions to ensure availability
human, logistical and financial resources required to implement the
plans and programs.
3.1.12.2. Increase the reliability and availability of infrastructure
collection, treatment, storage, shipment, measuring and refining
hydrocarbon.
3.1.12.3. Ensure the required skills in human talent to efficiently implement activities of value chain hydrocarbons.
3.1.13. Ensure energy security of the country.
3.1.13.1. Synchronize production with demand and days of coverage
various hydrocarbon fuels in the country.
85

3.1.13.2. Diversify the primary energy consumption and adapt
the best energy efficiency standards, incorporating coke, coal and other alternative energies.
3.1.13.3. Strengthen contingency plans to address timely manner
events of force majeure.
3.1.14. Strengthen the state in the control and management of the electrical system
national.
3.1.14.1. Strengthening and expanding the national electricity system.
3.1.14.2. Diversify the array of inputs for electricity generation by promoting the use of natural gas, coke and other energy sources.
3.1.14.3. Complete the hydroelectric development of the country, through the completion of hydroelectric complexes: Tocoma Uribante Caparo in its
second development, and develop Chorrín.
3.1.14.4. Promote the use of more efficient power generation technologies, through closures combined cycle thermal plants
described below: Plant Josefa Camejo thermo plant Termobarranca, Pedro Camejo plant, plant Termozulia III, Plant Site, Plant
Alberto Lovera, Ezequiel Zamora plant, plant Cabrutica San Diego,
Cumana plant.
3.1.14.5. Expand and improve the use of the transmission and distribution
electricity, by implementing:
• Robust Plan for expanding the transmission capacity
the following substations: Substation 400/115 kV San Carlos II,
Chivacoa II 400/115 kV, 400/115 kV Portuguese, Carabobo II 400/230
kV and its associated transmission system, SVC in 230 kV substation Wye Line No. 2 Uribante-El Vigia El Vigia II and II-Buena Vista
insulated 400 kV, 400 kV system in the west of the country (The VenadoBuena Vista).
• In Subtransmission: Extension of Transmission System link
- Distribution to 115 / 13.8-34.5 kV to meet end-user loads.
86

• In Distribution: distribution level compensating circuit for
improve power factor loads and build new feeders to supply end users with adequate quality of service.
• Expand and adapt the electrical system in the Western Region that
groups the Barinas, Merida, Tachira, Apure Alto, Trujillo states
and Zulia and construction of the following works: 45 substations,
4,044 km of transmission lines, 7,096 km of distribution lines, 1,305 MVA Distribution and 8654 MW generation plants.
• Expand and adapt the electrical system in the Central Region that
groups the Apure, Aragua, Carabobo, Cojedes, Capital, Falcon, Guarico, Lara, Miranda, Portuguesa, Vargas and Yaracuy and building
The following works 67 substations, 4,075 km of transmission lines, 3,179 km of distribution lines, 8,488 MVA Distribution, 5542 MW power plants.
• Expand and adapt the Eastern Electricity System grouping Anzoategui, Bolivar, Delta Amacuro, Monagas, Nueva Esparta
and Sucre and construction of the following works 48 substations,
4,110 km of transmission lines, 4,743 km of distribution lines, 1,083 MVA Distribution and 6780 MW generation plants.
3.1.14.6. Achieve efficiency and quality of electricity service through the development of electricity infrastructure to criteria of efficiency, quality, continuity, reliability and environmental friendliness.
3.1.14.7. Promoting the efficient use of electricity, using sources
alternate and implementing the use of wind power.
3.1.14.8. Ensure the supply of electrical service for new
housing developments referred to in Great Mission Housing Venezuela as well as for new oil, gas, and mining developments
petrochemicals.
3.1.15. Strengthen and deepen international energy cooperation.
87

3.1.15.1. Consolidate the already agreed and future strategic alliances between
signatories of Petrocaribe agreements, cooperation agreements
Energy and Comprehensive Cooperation Agreement, in order to ensure compliance with the agreement and placement of 470 MBD Venezuelan oil
to bring the benefits directly to the people of these countries.
3.1.15.2. Deepen political and economic alliances with those countries
favorable geostrategic position and whose interests converge with
those of our nation, favoring the construction of a multipolar world.
3.1.15.3. Deepen cooperative relations with countries in the region,
based on the principles of complementarity and solidarity in order
to provide access to energy.
3.1.16. Developing the economic strength using mineral resources.
3.1.16.1. Increase mineral reserves nationwide.

3.1.16.2. Locate new mineral deposits in the Guayana Shield,
Mountain System Caribbean, Andes and Sierra de Perija, with
geological prospecting and the use of new low-impact technology
environmental.
3.1.16.3. Duplicate mineral reserves of bauxite, iron, coltan (niobium and
tantalite), nickel, phosphate rock, coal feldspar and certification
the fields located in the Guayana Shield, Andes,
Caribbean mountain range and the Sierra de Perija.
3.1.16.4. Duplicate gold and diamond mineral reserves certification
of the deposits in the Guayana Shield, and its role in the
building socialism use as tradable for strengthening international reserves.
3.1.16.5. Develop the national mining potential for diversification
sources of employment, income and social forms of property.
3.1.16.6. Using endogenous industrial demand as a driving force
the development of mining, domestic demand coordinating with international demand.
88

3.1.16.7. Strengthening National Mining Company of indirect social property
integrating mining, rational exploitation of mineral deposits, develop scientific and technological knowledge, raise
productivity and improve production efficiency in the sector.
3.1.16.8. Increase the production of gold and diamond technologically upgrading existing SOEs gold, forming companies
Mixed in which the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela has control
decisions and keep a greater share of 55% and organizing
small mining production units.
3.1.16.9. Forming joint ventures for the exploitation and processing
bauxite, iron, coltan (niobium and tantalum), nickel, phosphate rock, feldspar and
coal; in which the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela has control
their decisions and keep a greater share of 55%.
3.1.16.10. Forming companies considering direct social property
popular knowledge in the industrial processing of non-metallic minerals
Main application for the construction of civil works such as soft clays, sand, gravel, pea gravel, granite, granodiorite, shale, marble, gneiss,
lime, gypsum and salt.
3.1.16.11. Develop mining technologies that reduce the environmental impact, the volumes of waste material and surface processing
useful material; exploiting the potential of universities and institutes
country and signed technology transfer agreements with allied countries.
3.1.16.12. Organize small-scale mining, focused on gold mining
and diamond production units where the State to provide technological and financial support to protect the health of workers, resources
natural and environment.
3.1.16.13. Creating the Social Development Fund Miner with financial contributions from mining to ensure social worker safety
and their dependents.

89

NATIONAL GOAL:
3.2. D
? evelop economic power based on the optimal use of the potential offered our resources to the
generating the greatest happiness of our people, as well as
the material basis for building our Bolivarian socialism.
STRATEGIC GOALS AND OBJECTIVES:
3.2.1 Moving towards productive sovereignty and independence in building strategic networks for both essential goods such as generation
value, based on our comparative advantages.
3.2.1.1. Expand and strengthen the capacities for extraction and primary processing and downstream development of chains of iron, steel and aluminum.
3.2.1.2. Develop primary production and build strategic axes
chemical petrochemical and associated chains of products; as industrialization base in generating consumer goods
intermediate and final.
3.2.1.3. Expansion and development of primary production and utilization
forest in the country, expanding plantings in volume and territorially,
Transformation and infrastructure throughout the supply chain for both
furniture, houses, paper and supplies from other industrial processes.
3.2.1.4. Industrialization of the construction sector to meet satisfaction
housing development, buildings, urban equipment and infrastructure.
3.2.1.5. Sovereign use both the extraction and processing of non-metallic minerals; maximizing performance techniques
and environmental protection, especially chains cement and aggregates
construction and special and new production inputs (feldspar, kaolin)
developments such as coltan.
3.2.1.6. Construction of a large industrial base, attached to a network architecture productive synergies, aimed at essential consumer goods and / or value creation.
90

3.2.1.7. Expand capacity, modernization and technology appropriation in the production of containers and packaging for both food sovereignty and the industry in general.
3.2.2. Take advantage of location of our country to continental and national diversity of regions, in order to enhance their productive specialization, comparative advantages associated with scale strategic sectors.
3.2.2.1. Setting a pattern of productive specialization from space
advantage of location based on the rational and efficient use of
resources with criteria of independence, sovereignty and balance
interregional, constituting the core functional scales planning
Space the country and the system of cities.
3.2.2.2. Generate productive structure support, regional networks, support infrastructure for production, logistics and distribution.
3.2.2.3. Build the pivots of the Bolivarian productive integration of Our America, defining the links of production chains and shared
strategic for the social needs of our people; especially
the areas of health, food, education, clothing, energy and housing.
3.2.3. Appropriating and developing the technique and technology as key to efficiency
and humanization of the production process; anchor chain links
and unleashing the productive potential of the same space.
3.2.3.1. Establish strategic alliances in a multipolar world to ensure technology transfer and improvement of production processes.
3.2.3.2. Promote a sovereign technological development from the needs of our industry to make viable the efficient use of
appropriate resources and cost structures.
3.2.3.3. Ensure comprehensive and continuous training processes of workers to adopt techniques and technologies that make production more efficient and humanize the work process.
3.2.4. Create mechanisms of circulation of capital, to build a new economic stimulus for the metabolism, functioning and development of the
91

domestic industry both funding sources, dynamics of production scale flow system resources that address the logic of capital.
3.2.4.1 Design and implement an efficient financial architecture from
achieved sovereignty, leverage oriented industrialization process
both national planning, feasibility assessment, implementation and monitoring of the new production unit.
3.2.4.2. Develop economies of scale and complementarity in the tissue
social productive in order to build a new economic metabolism,
contrary to the logic of capital. Implement a system of contributions by
surplus of socially owned enterprises directly and indirectly, in
the planning system.
3.2.4.3. Maintain and increase systems such as public procurement
circular flow of capital, conglomerates, small and medium enterprises,
communal enterprises as engines of the direct location of goods and
services produced, going out of channels logic of capital.
3.2.5. As well as propel continue developing productive links,
specific projects identified in both phase: consolidation, construction and start of operations, planning and design; during the next presidential term projects in the areas of Automotive, Appliances, Building Materials, Plastic processing and packaging,
Chemistry, personal hygiene and household, Pharmaceutical, Agro,
Computers and electronics, machinery and equipment, forestry, pulp and paper, production support, Textile and footwear, Iron Steel, Aluminium; as well as
rotating mechanism centrally planned budget outline
and models of efficient management and production in harmony with the transition to
socialism.
3.2.5.1. Iron and steel - Securing the following projects in operation: a) Factory rebar and steel coils SIDOR, Bolivar State; b) Factory
Sidetur rebar, states Bolívar, Lara, Carabobo and the Capital District; c) iron ore producer Ferrominera Orinoco, Bolivar State; d) Factory
92

Inveval and repair of oil valves, Miranda state; e) Plant
forgings for the oil and aluminum forgings industry Santa Clara,
Carabobo state.
3.2.5.2. Iron and steel - Accelerate the construction of the following projects: a)
Seamless pipe factory, Matanzas Industrial Zone, land of SIDOR,
Bolivar State; b) National Steel "Jose Ignacio Abreu e Lima" Ciudad Piar, Bolívar state; c) laminator Rails and Profiles Project Chaguaramas. Edo. Guárico; d) recovery plants Commodities (company
REMAPCA) in Soledad (Anzoategui), La Fria (Tachira), Santa Barbara (Monagas) and Cabimas (Zulia); e) dredging of the channel of the Orinoco River FMO.
3.2.5.3. Iron and steel - Develop sigientes projects: a) Recovery
pickling line Sidor; b) Continuous casting machine Round
Sidor squares; c) Line of welded steel mesh in Sidor; d) Alliance
strategy for the production of electrodes for welding carbon steel and special alloys; e) Extension of spring Palua, FMO;
f) Increase capacity of rail transport, FMO; g) Provision
machinery, equipment and spare parts for FMO; h) Circuit of new railway FMO.
3.2.5.4. Aluminum - Strengthen the following projects in operation: a) Transformation of Aluminum Alven, Aragua; b) Transformation of Aluminum Albarca, Lara state; c) Wheels Factory Rialca, Carabobo state; d) Factory aluminum foil and packaging Alucasa, Carabobo state; e) Plant
foil and foil Alunasa, Costa Rica; f) Plant bare wires
Cabelum aluminum, Bolivar State; g) Primary aluminum factory Alcasa,
Bolivar State; h) VENALUM primary aluminum factory in Bolivar State;
i) Production of bauxite Bauxilum, Bolivar state.
3.2.5.5. Aluminum - Accelerate the construction of the following projects: a)
Company Services Aluminium rolled in Caicara del Orinoco,
General Manuel Cedeño Municipality, Bolívar state.
3.2.5.6. Aluminum - Develop the following projects: a) Increase
production capacity bare aluminum electrical conductors; b)
93

CVG expanding production Cabelum for wire rod and wire
electrical; c) Adequacy of Alcasa technology to increase primary aluminum production; d) Adjustment technological power system
in electric cells Venalum; e) technological upgrading and expansion
of Rialca; f) Factory electrical conductors insulated copper and aluminum
Cabelum; g) electrical conductors Factory optical power ground wire,
Cabelum; h) wooden spools Factory, Cabelum; i) Adequacy of the
production plant metallurgical alumina and bauxite mine, Bauxilum;
j) Purchase of heavy machinery for extraction and transport of bauxite and
transporting material.
3.2.5.7. Automotive sector - Strengthen the following projects in operation:
a) manufactures automotive seats (Autoseat); b) Factory prints,
stamping and welding parts for automotive electropuntos (Ocimetalmecánica); c) Transformation of automotive glass (Vivex); d) vehicle assembly (Venirauto); e) vehicle assembly (ZGT, Chery); f)
Tractor assembly plant (Venirantractor); g) jointer tractors
(Pauny); h) jointer bicycles (Fanabi).
3.2.5.8. Automotive Sector - Accelerate the construction of the following projects: a) Tractor Factory "Veneminsk"; b) Holy Industrial Complex
Ines Edo. Barinas; c) truck factory "Mazven"; d) Industrial Complex
St. Agnes, Edo. Barinas; e) Ensambladora Motorcycle (KMV, Kawasaki); f) jointer trucks (Civetchi, Dongfeng); g) jointer trucks (Autoparts Lara, JAC); h) jointer trucks (Ensambladora
Eastern, Hino); i) jointer tractors (Venequip Agro, Case New
Holland); j) Massey Ferguson tractors jointer; k) Ensambladora
Tractor (John Deere); l) jointer tractors (Autoparts Lara,
Foton); m) jointer tractors (Veneminsk tractor MTZ).
3.2.5.9. Automotive Sector - Develop the following projects in conceptualization: a) with Yutong Bus Factory; b) jointer trucks (Venequip Agro, International); c) Ensambladora motorcycle (Yamaha).
94

3.2.5.10. Appliances - Strengthen the following projects already in operation: a) Factory of electric motors of low and medium power Venmotor,
Cojedes state.
3.2.5.11. Appliances - Accelerating the construction of the following projects: a) Haier appliance factory, Yare, Miranda state.
3.2.5.12. Appliances - Develop the following projects: a) Factory
Gas Kitchen with Argentina; b) Strategic partnership with Taurus; c)
Fadelca strategic partnership; d) strategic partnership with Motorvenca; e) Strategic Partnership with MABE.
3.2.5.13. Building Materials - Strengthen the following projects already
operation: a) Factory fittings INAF, Aragua; b) Distributor
Ferresidor building materials; c) producing factory lime Conacal,
Bolivar State; d) Cementos de Venezuela; e) Venezuelan Cement Industries; f) National Cement Factory; g) Cemento Andino; h) processing of stones Invepi, Falcon State Plant; i) Sanitarios Maracay.
3.2.5.14. Appliances - Accelerating the construction of the following projects: a) Manufacture of Galvanized Steel Lightweight Structures (LSF) to
use in construction; b) Cabimas (Zulia), Tinaquillo (Cojedes) and Shaker
(Monagas); c) Cement Plant "Cerro Azul" Pinto, Edo. Monagas; d)
Company basic inputs for housing construction, with plants
aggregates in Paez municipality, Edo. Portuguese, and Acevedo municipality, Edo.
Miranda; e) Production Factory Flat Glass "Venvidrio The Lowlands" The Lowlands of Monay, Edo. Trujillo; f) Industrial Complex ceramic Generalissimo Francisco de Miranda (strategic partnership with Russia).
3.2.5.15. Plastic processing and packaging - Strengthen the following projects already in operation: a) Factory in CIAMCA Rafia bags; b) Factory
of pallets in CIAMCA; c) water tank factory; d) plastic injection factory Saniplast, Zulia state; e) plastic injection Factory
Independencia, Miranda state; f) plastic injection Factory Battle
Carabobo, Carabobo state; g) plastic injection Factory The Furrial, ES95

Monagas state; h) Factory plastic injection Lancers Guaicaipuro,
Miranda state; i) glass packaging factory Venvidrio, Carabobo state
and Trujillo; j) Manufacture of aluminum packaging Alentuy; k) cardboard packaging factory (Cartonajes Granics); l) Materials Handling (Containers
International).
3.2.5.16. Plastic processing and packaging - Accelerate the construction of the
following projects: a) Complex Plastic, Ocumare and Yare, Edo. Miranda;
b) Factory inyectadoras (3R); c) Ground plastic Cacique Tiuna.
3.2.5.17. Plastic processing and packaging Develop the following
projects: a) Extension of complex plastic products, Yare, Edo. Miranda; b) Factory raffia bags in Caripe; c) Extension Factory
pallets in CIAMCA; d) Expanding diaper factory in CIAMCA; e)
Conglomerate diapers and sanitary towels and towelettes; f) Expanding
international containers.
3.2.5.18. Toiletries factories -Afianzar operation the following
projects: a) Factory CIAMCA diapers.
3.2.5.19. Factories personal hygiene -Accelerate construction of the following projects: a) Hygiene Products Factory Household, Maracay, Edo. Aragua.
3.2.5.20. Develop personal hygiene plants the following projects: a)
Factory Personal Hygiene Products.
3.2.5.21. Pharmaceutical -Accelerate the construction of the following projects
Pharmaceutical Complex, Yare, Edo. Miranda.
3.2.5.22. -Accelerate Agribusiness construction of the following projects:
a) Aloe Vera Processing Plant (Phase 1: juice and gel), Coro, Edo. Falcon; b)
Processing Plants Fruits, Vegetables and Tubers: Mene Grande (Zulia)
and Bobare (Lara); c) Meat Processing Plants: Cattle in Monte Carmelo (Trujillo) and Tucupita (Delta Amacuro); d) sheep and goats in Jadacaquiva (Falcon) and Carora (Lara); e) cattle and pigs in Mene Mauroa (Falcon); f)
Fish Processing Plant "Islamar" in Margarita, Nueva Esparta.
96

3.2.5.23. Agro - Develop the following projects: a) Plant
Aloe processing (Phase 2: aloin and aloe for pharmaceutics,
cosmetics and chemical), Edo. Falcon; b) Swine Processing Plant.
3.2.5.24. Computers and cell - Develop the following projects: a)
Assembly Plant Cell Orinoco in Paraguaná Free Zone,
Edo. Falcon; b) Extension SMT Factory Vtelca factory for export.
3.2.5.25. Machinery and equipment - Accelerate the construction of the following
projects: a) Heavy Machinery Factory; b) Holy Industrial Complex
Ines Edo. Barinas; c) Manufacture of Food Processing Equipment:
with Iran in Guanare (Portuguesa), with Brazil in Villa de Cura (Aragua) and
with Argentina in the Tigrito (Anzoátegui); d) Manufacture of industrial refrigeration equipment based on ammonia: Shaker (Monagas) and San Felipe
(Yaracuy); e) Industrial Equipment Factory based on freon cooling:
Villa de Cura, Edo. Aragua.
3.2.5.26. Machinery and equipment - developing the following projects: a) Machinery Factory with XCMG Construction; b) recovery plants Commodities (company REMAPCA) in Carabobo, Bolivar, Falcon and the Capital District.
3.2.5.27. Forestry - Accelerate the construction of the following projects: a)
Basic Pulp and Paper Company (PULPACA) Macapaima Industrial Zone, Independence Township, Edo. Anzoategui.
3.2.5.28. Forestry - Develop the following projects: a) Strengthening
Invepal; b) Strategic Alliance for school supplies;
3.2.5.29. Textile and footwear - Develop the following projects: a) Tenerías
Processing of fur; b) Development conglomerate textile and footwear for the entire production chain.
3.2.6. Strengthen the tourism sector as a tool for social inclusion that will facilitate and ensure the Venezuelan people, primarily to
most vulnerable populations, access to their Heritage Tourism (Destination
Tour) and enjoy the tourist infrastructure of the State in terms of fair and reasonable prices.
97

3.2.6.1. Boost the depressed tourist destinations by improving or creating tourism infrastructure: The Plains region, the
Andean Region and island territories promoted touristically (The
Tortuga and La Orchila).
3.2.6.2. Strengthen the international position of Venezuela as a tourist destination through the international mass tourism promotion. In this
sense, it aims to reach a number of 2 million international tourists visiting our country, tripling the current average figure.
3.2.7. Develop the tourism sector as a productive activity that generates
enough income that can be redistributed by the Bolivarian Government to meet the needs of the Venezuelan people.
3.2.7.1. Promote the growth of domestic tourism through policies and
Popular tourism programs. In this regard, it aims to reach an annual number of 22 million people undertake trips for tourism. Currently, according to information provided by the National Statistics Institute (INE), a total of 17 million Venezuelans
make, year, tourism in the country.
3.2.7.2. Strengthen Network Venetur Hotels and its positioning as the first hotel chain in the country. Also Venetur position as Parent company
the leading tour operator in Venezuela, which will increase the
direct contribution of this economic activity for the benefit of the country.
3.2.7.3. Internationalize Venetur hotel network through alliances and own investments, with allies. This policy will allow attracting
currency that can be reoriented to meet the needs of the Venezuelan people.
NATIONAL GOAL:
3.3. Expand and shape the military might to defend the homeland.

98

Our country promotes peaceful cooperation among nations,
urges Latin American and Caribbean integration, the principle of self-determination and non-intervention in the internal affairs of
each country, which is why the country's military strength is purely defensive
and deterrent, which does not threaten anyone nor have invasive claims, everything
Otherwise we promote peace and Latin American integration and
Caribbean to contribute to the defense of our people, it forces us
every day to ensure the strengthening of our own doctrines and military technologies that allow us to be a reference in the region peaceful,
You adapting our military industry to our own needs, resulting from the geostrategic reality of our country, availing of cooperation with friendly countries.
STRATEGIC GOALS AND OBJECTIVES:
3.3.1. Strengthen the Venezuelan military industry.
3.3.1.1. Enhance cooperation with fraternal countries in line with
Integral needs for Homeland Defense.
3.3.1.2. Promote technology transfer at every stage endowment
our Bolivarian National Armed Forces.
3.3.1.3. Increase the development of our own defense industry technologies to ensure autonomy and sovereignty in the airspace, naval
and land.
3.3.1.4. Strengthen the bonds of integration of our country with brotherly countries to share skills and knowledge based welfare
of our people.
3.3.2. Develop training system with doctrinal changes
Integral to the Homeland Defense.
3.3.2.1. Improve and adapt curricula in line with the
new conceptions and needs of the military sector.
3.3.2.2. Consolidate and deepen the Bolivarian doctrine, our Strength
Bolivarian Navy.
99

3.3.2.3. Develop a system of training and combat readiness
more efficient and according to our own reality.
3.3.2.4. Disseminate and publicize the whole country the new conception of Defense
Integral.
3.3.2.5. Consolidate a territorial defense system capable of leading the country
Wartime peacetime, strategically defensive and extremely popular.
3.3.3. Improve and perfect the educational system of the National Armed Forces and the people's power and turn it into a single block that meets the
interests of the country.
3.3.3.1. Prepare and train the members of our Bolivarian National Armed Forces under the fundamental premise of the Bolivarian ideals
Integration, sovereignty, independence, based on the concept of war
popular long.
3.3.3.2. Actively integrate the training plans of our military training academies and Our universities for them to order
development and defense of our country.
3.3.3.3. Increasing training of military and civilian professionals brothers agreements with countries to help one another to have a Pueblo
Armed Forces and each day more united.
NATIONAL GOAL:
3. 4. Further development of the new national geopolitics.
STRATEGIC GOALS AND OBJECTIVES:
3.4.1. Furthering national integration and social equity - through territorial Integral Development Hubs: Northern Plains, Apure - Orinoco, Western and Eastern Development Poles of Socialist Development Districts engines.
3.4.1.1. Promote and accelerate the Integral Development of the Orinoco Oil
Belt (FPO).
100

3.4.1.2. Transform the habitat of the main urban centers and human settlements; with social justice and popular role, preserving
the environment.
3.4.1.3. Develop the required roads to boost the FPO by
the implementation of a land transport corridor.
3.4.1.4. Enhance the river Apure axis - Orinoco to establish the necessary relationships and joints between the towns deployed to
both riverbanks, using oil, agricultural,
fishing, tourism and enhancing the flow and exchange between centers
villages.
3.4.1.5. Build rail sections that are necessary for the transport of passengers and goods distribution in the FPO.
3.4.1.6. Strengthen and improve the drinking water and served in the FPO.
3.4.1.7. Sort the territory and ensure the basis of ecological sustainability.
3.4.1.8. Formulate and implement land management plans for
different territorial levels.
3.4.1.9. Preserve watersheds and water bodies.
3.4.1.10. Conserve and preserve natural environments.
3.4.1.11. Incorporate recognition of the culture of the peoples in the planning and land use planning.
3.4.1.12. Promote programs of integral management of solid waste.
3.4.1.13. Strengthen and improve drinking water systems throughout the country.
3.4.1.14. Maintaining and increasing the continuity of drinking water
250 liters per person, both in urban and rural areas to
throughout the national territory.
3.4.1.15. Continue to build 100 aqueducts at national level,
will allow ensuring national production of 4,000 million cubic meters of drinking water to meet demand estimated population
32,000,000 inhabitants by 2019.
101

3.4.1.16. Completing the construction of Tuy 4, which provide continuous service
the populations of Miranda, Vargas and the Capital District, distributing 21,000 liters / second of water.
3.4.1.17. Completing the construction of the aqueduct Luisa Caceres de Arismendi, which will provide a continuous supply of drinking water residents
the states of Nueva Esparta and Sucre, distributing 2700 liters / second.
3.4.1.18. Completing the construction of the Regional System Expansion
Center, which will provide a continuous supply of drinking water the inhabitants of the Carabobo state: Eastern Shaft Carabobo state and municipality
Carlos Arvelo; by Aragua (all metropolitan axis from municipality to municipality Ribas Iragorri) state. With the construction of the fourth
production line of 7200-9000 liters / second increase. Population
benefiting 400 thousand inhabitants.
3.4.1.19. Completing the construction of the aqueduct Barcelona-Guanta-Dairy, which will provide a continuous supply of drinking water residents
Anzoategui (Puerto La Cruz, Guanta, Barcelona, ​​Dairy) state, increasing the production of water 3000-6000 liters / second and benefiting
a population of 800 thousand people.
3.4.2. Promote and accelerate the Arc Mining Development.
3.4.2.1. Create a hegemonic legal framework to ensure sovereign control and
the state in the development of the productive chain of the mining sector and its
related activities.
3.4.2.2. Ensure proper quantification and certification of volumes
resources available in the areas of iron, aluminum, coltan, gold and other
minerals.
3.4.2.3. Promote the development of technologies that allow for rational exploitation of minerals found in the area of ​​Arco
Mining without plundering the environment.
3.4.2.4. Set units of land management in areas with mining potential
for the coordination of regional, social and economic policies, preserving the historical and cultural heritage.
102

3.4.3. Promote and consolidate the development of the petrochemical.
3.4.4. Promote and consolidate the development of the Socialist Petroindustriales Bases in a specific area of ​​the territory, that allows to develop the regional potential, to offer goods and services to the oil industry.
3. 4. 5. Maintain and ensure the functioning of the Federal Council of Government, instances that comprise it, as well as the forms of coordination
policies and actions between territorial political entities and organizations of the People's Power.
3.4.6. Promote the creation of Engines Development Districts, with the aim of promoting the geographical area covered by each of them,
a set of economic, social, scientific and technological projects to achieve the comprehensive development of regions and strengthening
People power, in order to facilitate the transition to socialism.
3.4.6.1. Motor shape the Barlovento, Miranda state District. Area
priority treatment in Tuy River Basin, specialization
agribusiness.
3.4.6.2. Form the Motor Caicara-Cabruta, Bolivar and Guarico states District. Project facilitators: Third Bridge over the Orinoco and UPS Algodones del Orinoco River. Agribusiness expertise.
3.4.6.3. Motor Biruaca -Achaguas form the United Guarico District
Apure. Dynamic project Cane Ethanol Center. Specialization
agribusiness.
3.4.6.4. Motor shape the Paria, Sucre state District. Facilitators Projects: Oil Gas Project, Delta - Eastern Caribbean Deltana Platform,
Cocoa Socialist Mixed Company Alba. Agricultural-Tourist specialization.
3.4.6.5. Motor shape the South Lake, Zulia and Merida states District. Distribution UPS dynamic project. Agribusiness expertise.
3.4.6.6. Motor shape the Santa Elena de Uairen-Ikabarú, United District
Bolivar and Amazonas. Dynamic project air and river transport. Agro-ecological and tourism specialization.
103

3.4.6.7. Ortiz-shape the Motor Calabozo, Guarico and Aragua states District. Project facilitators: UPS Agrifood, Agroindustrial Complex Project Rio Sooty and Guarico River. Agribusiness expertise.
3.4.6.8. Motor shape the Tacariguas-Las Tejerías District. United
Aragua and Carabobo. Project facilitators: vehicle assembly
Iran-Venezuela-Venezuela and China, structural solution growth
Lake Tacarigua. Industrial, environmental and agricultural expertise.
3.4.6.9. Motor shape the El Diluvio-El Palmar, District Zulia state. Dynamic project: the Flood Irrigation System. Agricultural specialization.
3.4.6.10. Form the Motor Florentino (Boconó-Barinas), State District
Barinas and Trujillo. Facilitators projects: Highway Boconó-Barinas, Florentino Breeding Center. Agribusiness expertise.
3.4.6.11. Form the Motor Orichuna-Matiyure, Apure State District. Dynamic Project: Livestock UPS. Agricultural specialization.
3.4.6.12. Urban form the Motor City Tiuna District, located in the Capital District and Miranda State. To develop the new model socialist city.
3.4.6.13. Caribea Motor City Urban District, located in Punjab
and Vargas. To develop the new model socialist city.
3.4.6.14. Urban Bethlehem Motor City district located in the state of Miranda.
To develop the new model socialist city.
3.4.7. Improve existing infrastructure and ensure the agricultural production areas.
3.4.7.1. Promote the creation of agricultural areas with large concentration
potentialities, in order to ensure national food security and generating agricultural products such as corn, rice, soybeans,
cotton, sorghum and livestock production.
3.4.7.2. Gradually develop the central plains of the Orinoco River.
3.4.8. Integrate the country through multimodal corridors
infrastructure: road, rail, air, river transport, electricity, gas, oil, water and telecommunications.
104

3.4.8.1. Maintain and build roads, highways and trunk roads connecting large and medium cities across the country.
3.4.8.2. Build the necessary road infrastructure to connect
industrial zones, with areas of resource exploitation.
3.4.8.3. Improve road conditions in rural and agricultural areas.
3.4.9. Promote the creation of a state transport company, allowing
improve public service users and move the old fleet, which generates a high fuel consumption.
3.4.10. Ensuring rail development along our homeland in order to carry passengers, agricultural, industrial and
commercial goods.
3.4.10.1. Completing the construction and rehabilitation of railway sections
found in the area of ​​our country nortecostera: 1. Puerto CabelloValencia-Cagua (Construction); 2. Yaritagua - Barquisimeto-Puerto Cabello
(Rehabilitation) and 3. -The Crossroads Cagua (Construction).
3.4.10.2. Promote the construction of railway sections located south of
Spain: 1. Tinaco-Anaco (Construction); 2. San Juan de los Morros-San
Fernando (Construction); 3. Chaguaramas-Cabruta (Construction) and 4. San
Juan Morros-La Encrucijada (Construction), and to ensure its connection with
railway sections located in the coastal north.
3.4.10.3. Promote the construction of other railway sections that allow
interconnect the Andean, eastern, southern and central region of the country.
3.4.11. Accelerate the development of a system to allow river navigation
Orinoco and Apure rivers without plundering the environment.
3.4.11.1. Promote the development of a plan to build
ports along our coasts.
3.4.12. Planning from the Central Government and popular role, the
urban and rural development of existing cities and springs to
Throughout our country, through the development of the Great Mission
Housing Venezuela.
105

3.4.12.1. Develop the second phase of the Great Mission Housing Venezuela
to finally bring down the accumulated housing deficit.
3.4.12.2. Implement the compact city as a model of urban development
sustainable, with low-rise buildings and high density.
3.4.12.3. Promote the economy of spaces and resources as a means to achieve a balanced urban growth, incorporating the idle land or
underutilized existing population centers and its suburban areas.
3.4.12.4. Strengthen the construction of houses in rural areas to improve the living conditions of the rural family.
3.4.12.5. 2,650,000 build new homes, distributed in the country according to the national housing register, so that
consolidate the axes of comprehensive development, the development centers and districts
engines.
3.4.12.6. Improve and expand 1,000,000 homes, to consolidate existing settlements.
3.4.12.7. Implement improvement plans and provision of basic public services.
3.3.15.8. Continue construction of water distribution systems
drinking and wastewater sanitation in settlements even
They are deficient in this service.
3.4.12.9. Improve systems for local distribution of electricity, to adequately respond to the densification of urban and rural areas.
3.4.12.10. Accelerate the distribution plan domestic gas.
3.4.12.11. Incorporate new developments and areas without service network
telecommunications, to ensure access to telephone, television and Internet.
3.4.12.12. Improve local vehicular and pedestrian accessibility.
3.4.12.13. Encourage the use of public transport to prevail
on private transport.
3.4.12.14. Enable new land with basic services to enable the future construction of housing developments.

106

3.4.12.15. Improve and build urban infrastructure necessary to ensure accessibility to education, health, sports, social, cultural, recreational and security.
3.4.12.16. Implement a plan enabling public spaces
towns.
3.4.12.17. Improve and rehabilitate the buildings of urban equipment
existing.
3.4.12.18. Build new projects in urban facilities necessary.
3.4.12.19. Incorporate into urban plans and projects that generate productive activities liberating work for the new inhabitants.
3.4.12.20. Promote the construction of new homes in the vicinity of the
new production centers.
3.4.12.21. Establish productive areas of low environmental impact on
housing developments under construction.
3.4.12.22. Deepening the specialization of new urban developments
large to promote productive diversification.
3.4.13. Strengthen the State's presence in the border areas and the joint in the facades of Caribbean, Andean and Amazon integration, to
to help strengthen national independence and sovereignty.
IV. Help develop a new geopolitical
INTERNATIONAL BODY IN WHICH TAKE THE WORLD multicenter multipolar that would achieve the balance of the universe and ensure peace PLANETARY.
NATIONAL GOAL:
4.1. C
? o continue to play a leading role in building
Latin American and Caribbean unity.

107

STRATEGIC GOALS AND OBJECTIVES:
4.1.1. Strengthen the Bolivarian Alliance for the Peoples of Our America
(ALBA) and the living space of the political relationship of the Revolution
Bolivariana.
4.1.1.1. Boosting the role of ALBA in the forefront of the process of change
Latin American and Caribbean, boosting the new spaces such as UNASUR and CELAC.
4.1.1.2. Strengthening policy coordination mechanisms ALBA bloc
in the Inter-American and Universal systems to its comprehensive transformation.
4.1.1.3. Build Economic Zone of the ALBA, by the necessary economic structures, strengthening the role of the Unitary Compensation System
Regional (SUCRE) and the Banco del Alba in the strategy of economic, financial, production and commercial complementarity in the region.
4.1.2. Strengthen the PETROCARIBE mechanism as energy solidarity scheme and social cooperation.
4.1.2.1. Strengthening the alliance between Venezuela and the Caribbean, through the PETROCARIBE mechanism, strengthening an independent and sovereign Caribbean Union for the integral development of its peoples.
4.1.3. Consolidating the Union of South American Nations (UNASUR) as a regional strategic space for the construction of a multipolar world.
4.1.3.1. Ensure active participation in each of the Councils
UNASUR, to achieve the promotion of policies and actions that benefit
the peoples of Our America.
4.1.4. Promote and strengthen the Community of Latin American and
Caribbean (ECLAC), as a mechanism of union of Latin America and the Caribbean.
4.1.4.1. Strengthen the role of CELAC as a common space for political, economic, social and cultural integration of the region.
4.1.4.2. Form and highlight boxes that will drive the strategic areas of regional cooperation and integration (ALBA, Petrocaribe, UNASUR, CELAC).
108

4.1.5. Strengthen bilateral strategic partnerships with the countries of our
America, as a basis for promoting subregional schemes union and
regional (ALBA, MERCOSUR.)
4.1.5.1. Deepen political identity with brotherly peoples and governments of the member countries of ALBA and MERCOSUR to continue promoting policies of justice and solidarity in our America.
4.1.5.2. Grannacionales intensify economic union with projects
ALBA countries, and productive complementation with countries
MERCOSUR.
4.1.5.3. Deepen political political dialogue at the highest level and productive linkages with the sister Republic of Colombia, giving
fulfilling the mandate of union of Simon Bolivar.
4.1.6. Advance the creation of productive economic linkages
Latin America and the Caribbean to strengthen the domestic industry and to ensure the safe delivery of products.
4.1.6.1. Strengthening the South Bank as an institution for integration
regional financial.
4.1.6.2. Generate a permanent policy of solidarity finance
boost productive economic linkages with Latin America and
the Caribbean to achieve our economic, food production and regional independence.
4.1.7. Deepen bilateral strategic partnership existing between Venezuela and the countries of the region, with special emphasis on cooperation with
Brazil, Argentina, and Uruguay, in different areas of complementarity and
ongoing cooperation.
4.1.7.1. Consolidate Venezuela as a supplier partnership,
without hegemonic pretensions and under the principle of self-determination
The towns.
4.1.7.2. Guide cooperation with partner countries in the region, as the drive motor of the socialist socio-productive model.
109

4.1.7.3. Ensure technology transfer in scientific cooperation,
achieve productive economic independence.
4.1.8. Push the new Latin American and Caribbean communications order,
with emphasis on new media systems and regional information, and
the promotion of new communication tools.
4.1.8.1. Strengthen Telesur ensuring greater regional and global presence.
4.1.8.2. Expand the sign of the Radio South as a communication tool for the recognition of political processes in the region.
4.1.8.3. Promote alternative information networks and community strings in the region, as well as social networks.
4.1.8.4. Permanently spread truthful information produced by the
ALBA countries and allies South.
4.1.8.5. Ensure the continued production of content that is disseminated
through the regional media on social progress,
cultural of the Bolivarian Revolution. Political
4.1.9. Promote harmonious and cooperative resolution of boundaries
earrings, understanding the stabilization of borders as an element
of unity and peace.
NATIONAL GOAL:
4.2. Strengthen national identity and nuestroamericana.
STRATEGIC GOALS AND OBJECTIVES:
4.2.1. Consolidate the vision of heterogeneity and ethnic diversity of Venezuela and Our America under the respect and integration of minorities and
indigenous peoples into national life and decision making.
4.2.1.1. Consolidate and create national institutions in nuestramericana
organizations of cooperation and integration as ALBA, UNASUR,
CELAC, MERCOSUR.
4.2.1.2. Increase presence in the curriculum content and programming
audiovisual, and national and international themed events.
110

4.2.2. Addressing from the highest legal, and national level in nuestramericano
educational content about national identity and diversity of peoples.
4.2.2.1. Submit regional and subregional initiatives such as Social Charters,
Cultural Declarations, Covenants and government documents arising
from popular participation and reflected in the new nuestramericana institutions.
4.2.2.2. Defending the presence of ethnic minorities and indigenous peoples
instances nuestramericana decision-making.
NATIONAL GOAL:
4.3.? Continue to promote the development of a multi World and
pluripolar without imperial domination and respect for self-determination.
STRATEGIC GOALS AND OBJECTIVES:
4.3.1. Form a network of political relations with the centers of power
emerging.
4.3.1.1. Establish a partnership with the BRICS as the core that brings together the key emerging powers in consolidating the world
multipolar.
4.3.1.2. Promote rapprochement and coordination mechanisms between the new union Latin American and Caribbean (ALBA, UNASUR, CELAC) and
BRICS, in order to give greater force to the voice of the people
South on the global agenda.
4.3.1.3. Raise to a higher level strategic alliances with the Republic
Popular China, the Russian Federation and the Federative Republic of Brazil
in order to further strengthen the national power.
4.3.1.4. Establish strategic alliances with the Republic of India and South Africa.
4.3.1.5. Deepen political relations and economic cooperation with
all countries of the Americas, and with countries from Africa, Asia,
111

Europe and Oceania whose governments are willing to work based on the
mutual respect and cooperation.
4.3.1.6. Stepping closer to the mechanisms of economic and political integration of Africa and Asia (ASEAN, ECOWAS, etc.) involved
as observers and promoting contacts with the mechanisms
Latin American and Caribbean unity.
4.3.1.7. Promote leadership within the Non-Aligned Movement (NAM), with a view to carrying out the XVII Summit of Heads of State
and government in Venezuela.
4.3.1.8. Inter reinvigorate regional forums union as South-South America
South-Africa (ASA) and the South American Arab Countries (ASPA).
4.3.2. Forming a new communications order South.
4.3.2.1. Strengthening multi-state television and radio and Telesur
Radio del Sur, along with their respective electronic platforms, expanding
its scope, in different languages ​​and offer the variety and quality of its contents, in order to project the truth of our people and break the blockade
information and censorship to which they are subject the people of the powers
by imperialist transnational corporations of communication.
4.3.2.2. Establish partnerships with chains of communication and information
emerging poles of the world, to ensure mutual understanding and
truthful information about our realities, without the distorting filter of
Large media companies of the imperialist powers
4.3.3. Advance the diplomacy of the peoples and the active participation
organized popular movements in building a world
multipolar and balanced.
4.3.3.1. Promoting participation of global networks of social movements in major international forums and summits.
4.3.3.2. Monitor the organization and conduct of international forum of social movements and grassroots organizations in order to collect their
demands and proposals for incorporation into the global political agenda.
112

4.3.4. Continue to promote the transformation of Rights Systems
Humans, on the basis of respect, the democratization of the system, the sovereign equality of States and the principle of non-interference.
4.3.4.1. Keep active politics and leadership, together with the countries
progressive in the region, in the call for the urgent and necessary reform
Inter-American Human Rights Court and for being bastions
US imperialism highly politicized.
NATIONAL GOAL:
4.4. Remove the neocolonial system of imperial domination.
STRATEGIC GOALS AND OBJECTIVES:
4.3.5. To demarcate Venezuela of international mechanisms of imperial domination.
4.3.5.1. Denounce multilateral treaties which limit national sovereignty against the interests of the neo-colonial powers (Inter-American Human Rights, etc.).
4.3.5.2. Report treaties and bilateral agreements that limit the sovereignty
national interests against the neo-colonial powers (promotion and
investment protection).
4.3.5.3. Establish the necessary alliances to neutralize the actions of the
neocolonial powers in international organizations.
4.3.5.4. Remove the participation of international financial institutions in national development projects
4.3.6. Reduced to levels that do not compromise national independence economic and technological relationship with the imperial centers of domination.
4.3.6.1. Carry no vital trade levels with the powers
neocolonial.
4.3.6.2. Carry no vital levels the relationship with the financial circuits dominated by the neo-colonial powers.
113

4.3.6.3. Reduce the involvement of neo-colonial powers in the financing of strategic projects for national development.
4.3.6.4. Carry no vital connection levels Venezuela to communication networks and information dominated by the neo-colonial powers.
4.3.6.5. Eliminate dependence on strategic sectors for development
national communication networks and information controlled by the neo-colonial powers.
4.3.6.6. Carry no vital technological participation levels of powers
Imperial in national development projects.
4.3.6.7. Remove the technological participation of the imperial powers in
strategic sectors for national sovereignty.
4.3.7. Deepen and broaden the relationship with emerging poles
new world.
4.3.7.1. Increase the share of emerging market currencies in the reserves and in the
International trade in Venezuela.
4.3.7.2. Perform major portion of economic and trade with emerging poles of the new world.
4.3.7.3. Increase economic and technological participation of emerging world poles in national development projects.
4.3.7.4. Establish alliances for political coordination and economic exchange between South binding mechanisms of the different continents, with
special emphasis on the BRICS.
V. CONTRIBUTE TO THE PRESERVATION OF LIFE ON PLANET AND THE SALVATION OF THE HUMAN SPECIES.
NATIONAL GOAL:
5.1. C
? UILDING productive and boost eco-socialist economic model, based on a harmonious relationship between man and nature, and to ensure rational use, optimal utilization and sos114

tation of natural resources, respecting the processes and cycles
of the nature.
STRATEGIC GOALS AND OBJECTIVES:
5.1.1. Promote socialism as the only option to the predatory model
and unsustainable capitalist.
5.1.2. Promote, nationally and internationally, a new socio-productive ethic that promotes the transformation of unsustainable patterns of production and consumption capitalists.
5.1.3. Generate socio-productive alternatives and new patterns of economic and financial cooperation for integral development and leverage
the establishment of a fair world trade, the principles of complementarity, cooperation and solidarity.
NATIONAL GOAL:
5.2. P
? o protect and defend the permanent sovereignty of the State over
natural resources for the ultimate benefit of our people,
will be its main guarantor.
STRATEGIC GOALS AND OBJECTIVES:
5.2.1. Promote actions at national and international level for the protection and conservation of strategic areas, including: sources and reservoirs
water (surface and underground), integrated watershed management, biodiversity, sustainable management of seas and oceans and forests.
5.2.1.1. Maintain leadership in multilateral and regional international negotiations related to the respective sectoral legal frameworks
environmental.
5.2.1.2. Continue promoting the recognition of access to water as a
human right in all areas and forums.

115

5.2.2. Dismount and fight international schemes that promote the commodification of nature, environmental services and
ecosystems.
5.2.2.1. Enable strategic alliances for the struggle against the commodification
Nature in all international forums.
5.2.2.2. Promote the development of a view from the ALBA-TCP and CELAC
that will strengthen the defense of regional interests, with a view
own from the south, in these sensitive and strategic issues that are
new forms of domination and dependence.
5.2.3. Promoting cooperation at regional level, for the integrated management of
transboundary natural resources.
5.2.3.1. Reinvigorate cooperation with neighboring countries in environmental management and ecological areas of common interest under the principles
of international law.
5.2.3.2. Defending territorial rights and sovereignty of the Venezuelan State in the negotiations related to the administration of space
marine and ocean and marine biodiversity beyond
national jurisdiction.
5.2.4. Securitization combat global environmental problems must be solved for the participation of all States, without
foreign hegemonic impositions.
5.2.4.1. Keep monitoring the development of the agenda of the Security Council to prevent the incorporation of environmental and human issues as
themes of "international security".
5.2.4.2. Strengthen substantive discussions on economic, social and environmental in relevant forums at regional and multilateral issues, so that the
decisions are made in an inclusive and transparent manner, without guidance
paternalistic and neo-colonial cut by developed countries.

116

NATIONAL GOAL:
5.3. D
? Venezuelan efender and protect historical and cultural heritage
and nuestroamericano.
STRATEGIC GOALS AND OBJECTIVES:
5.3.1. Countering the production and recovery of cultural elements
dominant circulating through the media and various institutions historical accounts.
5.3.1.1. Involve public institutions in producing reviews
strong forms of cultural and historical reconstructions
dominant.
5.3.1.2. Vehicular criticism through public media
(Magazines, television, events, etc.).
5.3.1.3. Promote the production of textbooks to generate awareness
and critically form new generations.
5.3.2. Producing spaces of expression and recording mechanisms cultures
Popular historical memory and social and ethnic groups of subordinates.
5.3.2.1. At the national and regional levels, identify areas of speech and popular forms of reproduction of historical memory (for example, the chroniclers).
5.3.2.2. Organize within each community council and each Commune
Construction, working groups for registration of historical memory and
dissemination of the contents of popular culture or ethnic (in the case, for example, indigenous people, Afro-Venezuelans, of the work done by the
Urban Land Committees, Water tables and others).
5.3.2.3. Popular train experts in the protection of cultural heritage
popular and historical memory.
5.3.2.4. Involve museums and other institutions of historical interest and
Cultural, in the plan of conservation and enhancement of the cultural heritage and
popular history.
117

5.3.3. Production of new culture, according to the humanist approach, with popular actors and intellectuals, to integrate the past
revalued with this we want to build.
5.3.3.1. Promote discussions within the grassroots organizations on cultural experience and identities for the analysis of the current situation and
changes needed.
5.3.3.2. Put special emphasis on gender relations. In this sense,
encourage the creation of working groups made up of women, at last
to reflect on their work and family life and produce strategies of resistance and liberation, suffering the brunt of dominant cultures,
where the woman is relegated to a secondary role, often suffering explicit forms of violence. The same would apply to sexodiversos groups
(Gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender people), required to
live a condition of repression and humiliation, where the only way out
frivolity is offered by the capitalist world.
5.3.3.3. Promote the construction of social spaces, which can match
Community Councils with more involved with the revolutionary project, where new forms of socialization, solidarity economic rules and building experience less repressive identities.
5.3.4. Develop maintenance and dissemination strategies in the global world
cultural and historical memory of the Venezuelan people features.
5.3.4.1. Plan effectively delivering all public libraries and to school, materials produced on (a) history
subaltern groups; (B) the popular historical memory; (C) the different
regional and ethnic cultures of Venezuela.
5.3.4.2. Encourage the spread of mass media, public and private, of historical content, cultural, popular, traditional and new production.
5.3.4.3. Develop and implement a coordinated plan for the dissemination of traditional culture and ethnic subaltern and historical memory through Venezuela
118

international diplomatic institutions and encouraging Venezuela
relations with universities in other countries.
NATIONAL GOAL:
5.4. C
? To contribute to the formation of a large global movement to
contain the causes and repair the effects of climate change
occur as a result of predatory capitalist model.
STRATEGIC GOALS AND OBJECTIVES:
5.4.1. Continue the struggle to preserve, respect and strengthening the climate regime comprised Nations Framework Convention
United Nations Climate Change and its Kyoto Protocol.
5.4.1.1. Remove schemes international carbon markets
legitimize buying pollution rights and unpunished destruction
the planet.
5.4.1.2. Promote and encourage the strengthening of existing climate legal system with emphasis on the historical responsibilities of developed countries.
5.4.1.3. Encourage and support actions to promote international justice with respect to the breach of the developed countries of their obligations under the Kyoto Protocol.
5.4.2. Design, nationally, a National Mitigation Plan, covering
productive sectors emitting greenhouse gases, as a
voluntary contribution to national efforts to save the planet.
5.4.2.1. Promote the transformation of those productive sectors level
national, ethical aligned transforming the socialist economic model, with special emphasis on energy, agriculture or livestock sector management
solid waste and forests.
5.4.3. Designing an ambitious National Adaptation Plan in line with the eco-socialist Bolivarian ethical commitment to enable our country to prepare for scenarios and climate impacts that will occur due to the
irresponsibility of the industrialized countries, polluters.
119

5.4.3.1. The plan should be developed in collaboration with all national bodies in charge of spatial planning and disaster management
with prospective strategic planning for increases in temperature
in the next 20 years, according to achieve mitigation pledges
consolidated within the framework of the UN.
5.4.3.2. Calculate the costs of losses and damages resulting from
climatic extremes, including insurance and reinsurance for specific sensitive sectors (including agriculture), which must join
the ecological debt of industrialized countries.

120

At the Battle of Carabobo
and the victory of the Socialist Fatherland

Throughout the proposal presented today, more progress is reflected
two centuries of resistance and 13 years of a people in Revolution and
invites all who want Patria continue walking along the path of
Socialism, under the maximum we left the poetry of Antonio Machado: "Traveler there is no road, the road is made by walking."
Program content Homeland tries to interpret the will
of the popular majority, but even though we were able to translate it into
the text, we know that this is not at all sufficient. That is why from
This day, June 11, 2012, and until next December, we want
is the subject of broader and unbiased discussion, so that it will add, delete and edit, that will be complemented and enriched, so that the Plan II
Socialist Nation who shall abide in the coming period
Bolivarian and socialist government is genuinely collective work, as
It corresponds in times of revolution.
This proposal belongs to the Venezuelan people, which has macerated
their demands, their dreams, their resistance, their struggles and victories. So we are sure that finalizing know, put
necessary accents, imparting his breath and infinite inspiration.
122

This program of the country, especially belongs to you, young man
work, you study, you sow, you think that you innovate, you make us
feel deeply proud and proud with your sports and artistic triumphs that have made you soldier to defend the sacred soil, which struggles
in the present for the future. It is a program for the future that belongs to you,
for you "empines" to big, so beautiful as to not asked
Maestro Luis Beltran Prieto Figueroa.
Come, then, men and women workers, peasants, students,
African descent, indigenous peoples, academics of small and medium producers of the countryside and the city, merchants, carriers, motor, health professionals in general, teachers and
teachers, public servants, women, military, people,
fishermen and women, cultists and cultivators, athletes, and especially Venezuelan youth!
Come, then, the Venezuelan people, our homeland and our revolutionary program to defeat the inhumane capitalist proposal and flags
neocolonial empire and the Venezuelan right!
We go to the street, to the load, the new Battle of Carabobo and Victoria
for the country, nearly 200 years ago as the conquered in the glorious countryside
of Carabobo on June 24, 1821!

"What has been done is merely a prelude to what you can
do. Prepare to battle and tell victory ... "
Proclamation of Simon Bolivar
the 150 heroes of the Battle of Queseras
Middle, April 3, 1819

123

124
